IT&apos;S A FEW MINUTES AFTER 6:00
OUR CHAIR IS ANNOUNCED THAT
SHE&apos;LL BE ABSENT AND THE VICE
CHAIR IS TEMPORARILY DELAYED.
WE HOPE TO SEE HIM SOON.
MEANWHILE, WELCOME TO THE JULY
TWENTY SEVENTH TWENTY TWENTY
TWO ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING.
I&apos;M DAVE DEVOTEE SUBSTITUTING
FOR VICE CHAIRPERSON OF THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS CHRIS
FRALEY.
I&apos;VE BEEN THE VICE CHAIR BEFORE
SO I&apos;VE DONE THIS NOT ELEGANTLY
BUT HOPEFULLY I CAN MOVE THE
MEETING ALONG EFFICIENTLY.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
BY JOHN BARRETT AND THE CITY
STAFF, THEN THE APPLICANT OR
THEIR REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE
THEIR PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
YOU IN THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN THAT&apos;S EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
I&apos;D SAY NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN THAT&apos;S NINE THREE EIGHT
ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO
ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
ALSO INTRODUCE YOURSELF BY NAME
AND ADDRESS IF APPROPRIATE WE
MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER THE
CITY OR THE APPLICANT WE WILL
ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN OPINION PARTY
TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT OR
OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY TO
WHO AGGRIEVED WHO IS AGGRIEVED
BY A DECISION OF THE BOARD CAN
APPEAL THAT DECISION TO THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
ON A TIMELY BASIS.
CALL THE ROLL CANDICE BRIERRE
IS NOT HERE LIKE DANIEL HERE
DAVE DIVERSITY I&apos;M HERE CHRIS
MADIGAN HERE.
JULIA GOOD.
CHRIS FRALEY NOT SO OK YOU&apos;RE
YOU&apos;RE IN YOU&apos;RE TAKING I SWEAR
TO GOD GRANT ELIZABETH NELSON
HERE.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HERE WE HAVE YOUR POSTER.
WE HAVE A FORUM WE HOPE WE HAVE
A QUORUM.
PLEASE FORGIVE ME ALL A DRIVE
FROM LANSING TODAY.
IT WAS LONGER THAN EXPECTED AND
I DON&apos;T HAVE YOUR PHONE NUMBER
CORRECTLY IN MY PHONE
.
GIVE ME A SECOND HERE.
SO I GOT THIS AND THE AGENDA
FOR APPROVAL OF THE APPROVAL
THE AGENDA WE HAVE ONE
MODIFICATION TO THE AGENDA THE
VALHALLA
THE FIRST ITEM THE
ZIBA TWENTY TWO TWENTY NINE ONE
OF THEM MAHALLAH YEAH IT&apos;S POST
ON OK RIGHT
I MOVE THAT WE
APPROVE THE AGENDA WITH THE
MINOR CHANGE OF POSTPONING ITEM
THREE ONE ON SEVEN VALHALLA
DRIVE CAN THE SECOND I CAN I
JUST QUESTION YEAH.
SINCE THE FINAL CLEARANCE
REQUEST TONIGHT WAS IS A
PARKING REQUEST SIMILAR TO HOW
I WAS OUR DISCUSSION WITH THEM
ABOUT POSTPONING THE SAME WAY
AS FOR HOW WAS OR IS IT WORTH
WHILE?
I DON&apos;T KNOW TO AT LEAST OFFER
THEM THE OPPORTUNITY SINCE
ASKED TO POSTPONE FOR BECAUSE
THEY BELIEVE THAT YOU KNOW, THE
PARKING REGULATIONS WILL BE
CHANGED HERE IN THE NEXT MONTH
.
THAT&apos;S UP TO THE APPLE.
YEAH OK IF THEY CHOOSE TO BUT I
THINK THEY WANT TO GO TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST
3RD.
THEY WANT TO GO THROUGH WITH
THIS TONIGHT.
OK, SO I&apos;LL SUPPORT THE MOTION
WE HAVE SUPPORT.
DO WE HAVE ANY MOVEMENT TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES?
WELL FIRST WE NEED TO VOTE ON
THE OH I&apos;M SORRY I&apos;M SORRY
THAT&apos;S JUST THE VOICE VOTE OR
IS THAT A VOICE OR ROLL CALL
VOICE LEAVE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA OF VOICE YES IT IS OK
AND MCDANIEL WELL WE&apos;RE NOT
GOING TO DO ALL RIGHT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO CAN WE HAVE A VOTE CAN
I SEE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR.
I ALL THOSE AGAINST ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE TO
ALL RIGHT.
IS IS THIS FULL APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES?
IS THAT OK?
WE HAVE NEXT APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES.
DO WE HAVE THE AREA?
THAT&apos;S WHAT I MISS AND NOW DO
WE HAVE A MOVEMENT FOR APPROVAL
OVER THE MINUTES SOME HAVE
MOVED THE ALREADY MOVES
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES HAVE A
SECOND QUARTER FOR ALL IN FAVOR
SAY AY AY AY IN AGAINST AN WE
HAVE PASSAGE
THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS IN TWENTY TWO DASH ONE
TWO EIGHT FOUR.
MR. BARRETT, I&apos;M JOHN ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
VANDIVER THE FIRST PETITION
BEFORE US THIS EVENING ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH 2012 THE
ADDRESS IS FIVE TWENTY ONE S
FOURTH AVENUE ISSUE AND SCHENN
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TO ALTERATION
TO A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
TO CONSTRUCT A NEW RESIDENTIAL
UNIT THAT WILL BE ATTACHED TO
AN EXISTING UNIT AT THE BACK
OF THE PROPERTY A VARIANCE
OF TEN FEET ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THE LOT AND A 15 FOOT
VARIANCE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT TWENTY POINT FOUR
CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IS
REQUIRED.
THE PROPERTY IS THREE SEPARATE
BUILDINGS EACH CONTAIN A
RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
THE EXISTING BACK UNIT DOES NOT
MEET THE REAR INSIDE SETBACKS.
THE PROPOSED DWELLING WILL
CONTAIN SIX BEDROOMS AND SIX
BATHROOMS.
THE NEW RESIDENTS WILL MEET THE
SETBACKS FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE PROPERTY IS ON OUR FORESEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF SOUTH
FOURTH AVENUE DUE SOUTH
OF PACARD STREET.
THE PROPERTY HAS THREE SEPARATE
DWELLING UNITS ADDRESSED AS
FIVE TWENTY ONE FIVE TWENTY
THREE AND FIVE TWENTY FIVE S
FOURTH AVENUE AND A DETACHED
GARAGE LOCATED ON THE PARCEL.
THE SUBJECT DWELLING UNIT WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN APPROXIMATELY
NINETEEN FIFTEEN AND IS A THREE
BEDROOM TWO STOREY HOME.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING TO
CONVERT THE EXISTING THREE
BEDROOM ONE BATH RENTAL TO A
SIX BEDROOM TWO AND A HALF
BATHS UNIT.
THE PROJECT PROPOSAL ALSO
INCLUDES IN ADDITION TO THE
NORTH AND WEST THAT WILL
ACCOMMODATE A SIX BEDROOM SIX
BATH UNIT ATTACHED TO THE
EXISTING DWELLING.
YOU&apos;LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITOR&apos;S THE FIRST SLIDE
IS THE ZONING MAP SHOWING THE
LOCATION OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW
IN THE CENTER OF THE SCREEN YOU
SEE IT&apos;S JUST SOUTH OF PACKARD
STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
PHOTOS SHOWING SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTOS
SHOWING THREE SEPARATE DWELLING
UNITS ON HERE, ONE THERE, ONE
IN THE BACK AND THE DETACHED
GARAGE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND YOU SEE THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE DOES NOT
MEET THE SIDE AND THE REAR
SETBACKS THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS
THE SURVEY THAT WAS ON THE
PREVIOUS SCREEN UP AND THEN THE
BOTTOM OF THE SURVEY SHOWS AND
THE GRAY PORTION THE PROPOSED
FOOTPRINT FOR THE NEW PROPOSED
UNIT THAT WILL BE A FOURTH UNIT
ON THE PROPERTY CONTAINING THE
SIX BEDROOMS AND SIX BATHROOMS
AND THAT&apos;S WHERE THIS STRUCTURE
WILL NEED AN ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE ALONG
WITH THE VARIANCE FOR THE CLUB
ALONG THE EAST SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY AND THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE AT THE BACK
WHICH IS THE THREE BEDROOM YOU
SEE THE TWO BEDROOMS ON THE
MAIN FLOOR RIGHT HERE AND THE
THIRD BEDROOM IN THE ATTIC.
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING TO INCREASE
THE CAPACITY IN THE ATTIC
ADDITIONAL BEDROOMS WHICH WILL
TRIGGER THE ALTERATION OF THE
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE IN NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE NEW PROPOSED
PLAN FOR THE UNIT FOR UNIT
EXISTING UNIT THE SIX BEDROOMS
.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
PROPOSAL FOR THE THE NEW UNIT
ELEVATIONS EXISTING FOR THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE AND THE
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS FOR THE NEW
STRUCTURE
.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT THE PROPERTY WHEN I WAS
ON SITE.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING TWO UNITS
UP FRONT FACING S FOURTH AVENUE
LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY TO
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
THAT&apos;S PROPOSING TO THE
ALTERATION TO CONVERT MORE
HABITABLE SPACE IN THE ATTIC TO
CREATE A SIX BEDROOM UNIT AND
THEN THEY&apos;RE GOING TO ATTACH A
FOURTH UNIT TO THIS EXISTING
STRUCTURE.
THIS IS THE DETACHED GARAGE.
IT&apos;S ON SITE THAT WAS ON THE
SURVEY.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE AREA
WHERE PART OF THE THIS IS THE
EXISTING HVAC UNIT WHERE PART
OF THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL BE
ADJACENT TO IT.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY WITH THE
DETACHED GARAGE ON THE BACKS
OF THE TWO FRONT UNITS THAT
FACE FOURTH FOURTH STREET,
FOURTH AVENUE.
THIS IS ADJACENT PROPERTY
DIRECTLY NEXT DOOR PARKING IN
THE BACK OF THE PROPERTY THAT&apos;S
TO THE NORTH.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE BACK
DOWN IN THE DRIVEWAY TO THE
PROPERTIES ACROSS THE STREET ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF FOURTH AVENUE
ON THE WEST SIDE.
THIS IS DIRECTLY THE PROPERTY
ADJACENT TO THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY DIRECTLY TO THE NORTH
AND THIS MULTIFAMILY PROPERTY
TO THE SOUTH OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
SO JUST IN SUMMARY, REAL QUICK,
WE HAVE AN ALTERATION TO AN
EXISTING NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE GOING
TO BE INCREASING THE CAPACITY
WITHIN THE INTERIOR IN THE
ATTIC, EXPANDING THAT AND IT&apos;S
A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
BECAUSE IT DOESN&apos;T MEET THE
SIDES THE REAR STEP BACK OR THE
SIDES AND THEN WE HAVE A
VARIANCE FOR THE CLUB BECAUSE
WE&apos;VE GOT A 15 FOOT CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER WHICH THEY
CAN&apos;T MEET OVER HERE BECAUSE
THEY ONLY HAVE ROUGHLY FIVE
FEEDBACK HERE.
SO THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR THE TEN
FOOT VARIANCE ON THIS SIDE AND
THEN AN EIGHT FOOT VARIANCE
ALONG THIS SIDE FOR THE CLUB ON
THIS TO HAVE A VARIANCE FOR THE
CLUB AND ALTERATION TO THE
EXISTING NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
THIS TIME.
WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
YOU SAID
A CLUB.
WHAT WHAT&apos;S THAT MEAN?
THE CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
THEY HAVE TO INSTALL A NEW
BUFFER.
I WAS THINKING ARE THEY DOING
LIKE A CLUB?
NO, NO I&apos;M NOT OK, I GOT IT.
KNOW OTHER QUESTIONS I JUST
WANT TO CONFIRM LIKE WE THERE
IS NO CHANGE IN THE FOOTPRINT.
THIS IS ALL THE SAME FOOTPRINT.
WELL FOR THE FOR THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE WILL
THAT CHANGE OK FOR THE EXPAND
FROM A THREE BEDROOM SIX
BEDROOM HOUSE ARE GOING TO BE
GOING BUT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE
GOING TO THE ATTIC AND CHANGING
THAT.
SO ANYTIME YOU INCREASE YOUR
CAPACITY IN THE ATTIC OR THE
BASEMENT THAT REQUIRES AN
ALTERATION.
BUT THIS FOOTPRINT RIGHT HERE
IS GRAY FOOTPRINT THAT&apos;S GOING
TO BE AN INCREASE IN THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE DOING AN ADDITION WHICH
MEETS ALL THE SETBACKS RIGHT.
BUT THEY&apos;RE ADDING THIS UNIT,
THE FOURTH UNIT.
SO ONCE THEY ADD THIS FOURTH
UNIT THEY DON&apos;T HAVE THE SITE
PLAN ANY LONGER BUT THEY DO
HAVE TO MEET OTHER PROVISIONS
OF THE ORDINANCE.
ONE OF THEM IS THAT CLUB THE
COMMERCIAL DELANEYS BUFFER
WHICH THEY DON&apos;T THEY CAN&apos;T
INSTALL HERE.
SO THEY ONLY HAVE FIVE FEET AND
FIFTEEN.
SO THAT&apos;S THE REASON FOR THE
TEN FOOT VARIANCE ON THE EAST
SIDE AND THEN I MISSPOKE.
THEY NEED THE WHOLE FIFTEEN
FIGURES ON THE SOUTH SIDE
BECAUSE THE GARAGE AND THIS
STRUCTURE UP HERE ARE BASICALLY
ON THE PROPERTY LINE SO THEY
CAN INSTALL A CLUB ON THE SOUTH
OR EAST.
THAT&apos;S THE REASON FOR THE RIGHT
THE VERY THROUGH THE CLUB CAN
YOU CAN YOU SHOW US AGAIN IN
YOUR SLIDE PRESENTATION WHAT IS
ON THE WALL TO BE THE EAST SIDE
?
THE WHAT&apos;S THE VIEW FROM THE
EAST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHT
THERE?
SO WHERE DOES THAT ARE YOU
FACING EAST OR WEST AND THAT
WAS FACING EAST AND SO THIS
HOUSE IS ABOUT FIVE FEET OFF
THAT EASTERN PROPERTY LINE AND
YOU HAVE SOME TREES, SOME
VEGETATION AND THEN YOU HAVE
ANOTHER OF THE PROPERTIES THAT
FACE AFTER THE GODCHAUX.
SO I&apos;M NOT LOOKING AT AN ALLEY
THAT LOOKS LIKE AN ALLEY NOW
THIS IS THE INTERIOR OF THE
PROPERTY.
NO, I MEAN BEYOND THE HOUSE
PEOPLE LIKE YOUR QUITE CLOSE TO
WHERE YOUR CURSOR IS NOW.
SO HERE&apos;S THE OH IT&apos;S A PARKING
LOT PARKING LOT FOR THE
PROPERTIES OVER HERE ON FIFTH
STREET.
I SAID THIRD FIFTH HERE&apos;S
FOURTH HERE&apos;S FIFTH PROPERTY
SPACE THERE.
THAT&apos;S THE PARKING AREA IN THE
BACK AND THEN THIS SUBJECT
PROPERTY WHY IS IT A
CONFLICTING LAND USE BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S REQUIRED FOR WE&apos;VE GONE
THROUGH THIS BEFORE NOW I KNOW
IT&apos;S REQUIRED FOR SINGLE AND
TWO FAMILY AND OR MULTIFAMILY
PROPERTIES.
OH IT&apos;S BETWEEN SINGLE FAMILY
AND MULTIFAMILY THAT&apos;S THE
CONFLICT THOSE ARE THAT WE
REQUIRE BETWEEN MULTIFAMILY AND
MULTIFAMILY.
SO IT DOESN&apos;T MATTER IS IT?
OH MY GOSH.
FOR ALL NEW DEVELOPMENT.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M DONE WITH QUESTIONS SO BOTH
THE EAST AND SOUTH ARE
MULTIFAMILY USERS ADJACENT TO
THIS PROPERTY, RIGHT?
YEAH.
OK,
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M SORRY.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE OTHER
QUESTIONS FROM THE BOARD.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT WOULD STEP UP
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
PRESENT YOUR YOUR PROPOSAL AND
STATE YOUR NAME PLEASE.
SO I&apos;M SCOTT CLOSSON WITH DAN
RECONTRACTING.
I&apos;LL THE CONTRACTOR ON THE
PROJECT FORWARD KEVIN GREENE
WITH BMG DESIGN PLANNING FIVE
FOUR ZERO FOUR A NON ROAD.
YEAH.
SO AS USUAL, JOHN DID A GREAT
JOB OF EXPLAINING THE PROCESS
THOROUGHLY AND I JUST LIKE TO
TO ADD THEY&apos;RE NOT REALLY BAD
BUT I GUESS RESTATE THAT THE
NEW STRUCTURE
WE ARE PUTTING ON
IS ACTUALLY BACK WITHIN THE SET
BACKS AND THE CLUBS AND ALL ALL
THAT STUFF.
BUT BECAUSE WE&apos;RE ADDING TO IT
I GUESS IT MAKES THE WHOLE
PROPERTY NOW HAVE TO BE THAT.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE ISSUES
THAT WE&apos;RE HAVING.
WE&apos;RE OUT EXPANDING THE CURRENT
BUILDING INTO ANY ANY FURTHER
INTO THE SETBACKS WE&apos;RE STAYING
WITHIN THAT FOOTPRINT OF THAT.
SO THE ADD ON IS ACTUALLY KIND
OF GOING WHERE A WHITE CAR WAS
IN THE PICTURE WHEN YOU WERE
ASKING WHICH DIRECTION HE WAS
FACING RIGHT NOW.
YEAH, RIGHT IN AN AREA WITH THE
BLUE DRESS AND TO THE TO THE
NORTH AND A LITTLE BIT TO THE
THE WEST IN FRONT OF THOSE CARS
AND EVEN THE THE SOUTH SIDE AND
LEAVE WITH THE CLOTHES REQUIRED
I YOU JOHN IF YOU GO IS THERE A
PHOTO OF THE SOUTHERN HOME
THAT&apos;S FACING SOUTH RIGHT.
YEAH I THINK YOU SEE THAT THERE
IS A GARAGE OVER THERE OUR
GARAGE THAT WE HAVE HERE IS
ADJACENT TO THE GARAGE OF THE
SOUTHERN PROPERTY AS WELL.
SO IT IS A PARKING LOT THERE AS
WELL ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
SO YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S GOT JOHN DID A GREAT JOB
AND WE&apos;RE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
THAT&apos;S A FAIR MANY QUESTIONS
FOR US.
YEAH.
SO ARE ANY OF THE I GUESS
MARKED OFF PARKING SPOTS GOING
AWAY?
NO, ALL THE PARKING IS REALLY
THAT IS THERE IS GOING TO
REMAIN WE&apos;RE NOT ELIMINATING
PARKING.
THAT&apos;S WHAT I THOUGHT.
YEAH, JUST DOUBLE CHECK AND IT
WAS ABOUT SIX PARKING SPACES
THERE RIGHT NOW WE LOOKED AT
ELIMINATING THE GARAGE TO
INCREASE THAT WOULD COST SOME
OTHER ISSUES WITH STORMWATER
AND ETC. SO WE KEPT THE GARAGE
AND USE ACTUALLY TWO SPACES IN
THERE THAT WE CAN USE IN THE
SHED AND USE TO FOR OTHER
TENANTS.
GREAT.
AND WE HAVEN&apos;T EVEN INCLUDED
THOSE PARKING THOSE DEPARTMENT
IN THAT GARAGE IS NOT EVEN
INCLUDED BUT IT WILL BE IN OUR
TOWN.
AWESOME.
THANK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEARSONS, FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS FOR THREE
MINUTES.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HAND
FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
878 SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
TO FOUR SEVEN AND END YOUR
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME AND WE HAVE ANYONE
REMOTELY THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO
BE ANY CALLERS WE&apos;RE GOOD AT
THIS POINT.
WE HAVE WE RECEIVED ANY WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ON THE WE HAVE
NOT DID YOU MR DIVERSITY DID
YOU WANT TO BRING ANYTHING UP?
I WAS GOING TO SUGGEST
SEPARATING OUT THE ALTERATION
BECAUSE THERE THERE ARE
DIFFERENT STANDARDS THAT APPLY
SEPARATE OUT THE ALTERATION HAS
ONE VOTE AND THE VARIANCE AS A
SECOND BOTH SO I WOULD MOVE
THAT WE SEPARATE THOSE TWO
ISSUES SINCE THEY ARE AFFECTED
BY DIFFERENT STANDARDS.
YOU HAVE SEPARATE MOTIONS TO DO
.
I HAVE SEPARATE MOTIONS HERE.
YES.
SO SHOULD I JUST MAKE THE
MOTION SEPARATELY?
SURE.
AS OPPOSED TO DENHA SO I&apos;M
READY TO MAKE A MOTION
OF MOTION.
VERY GOOD.
I&apos;M GOING TO DO THE ALTERATION
FIRST THE ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH
TWO ZERO ONE TWO FIVE TWO ONE S
FOURTH AVENUE ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW UNIT THAT
WILL BE ATTACHED TO AN EXISTING
DWELLING AT THE REAR OF THIS
PROPERTY.
THE NEW DWELLING WILL CONTAIN
SIX BEDROOMS AND BATHROOMS THAT
WILL MEET THE SETBACKS FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THE NEW CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE
BUILT FOR THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THAT DOESN&apos;T SOUND VERY
IS THAT
SPEAKING TO THE WHOLE NEW UNIT
NEW CONSTRUCTION IS THAT
ACCURATE?
IT SEEMS TO BE SPEAKING TO A
WHOLE NEW UNIT.
THE ALTERATION IS FAGE.
YEAH, THAT&apos;S WHAT I READ JOHN.
IS THAT THE WAY YOU READ THE
THAT&apos;S THE THAT THE THE FACT
THE EXISTING THAT WON&apos;T BE
CONVERTED THE SIX BEDROOM THE
EXISTING UNIT WILL BE CONVERTED
TO SIX BEDROOMS.
YEAH.
AND THEN THE NEW UNIT WILL BE
SIX BEDROOMS AS WELL BUT THE
ALTAR I VIEW THE ALTERATION AS
THE ADAM NOT THE ADDITION
OF THE NEW UNIT.
CORRECT.
THEY&apos;RE BOTH GOING TO GO A SIX
THOUGH SO THIS ONE&apos;S EXISTING
IS ALSO GOING TO SIX.
I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT THAT
SHOULD NOT BE PART OF THE
ALTERATION MOTION THEN JUST
TAKE THAT OFF THE SAY THE
EXISTING THE EXISTING DWELLING
UNIT WILL BE CONVERTED TO A SIX
BEDROOM TWO BATH UNIT TWO AND A
UNIT.
OK, SO I&apos;M GOING TO READ REREAD
STARTING FROM THE TOP ZEBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ONE
TWO FIVE TWENTY ONE S FOURTH
AVENUE ALTERATION INTO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
AN EXISTING DWELLING AT THE
REAR OF THE PROPERTY TO BE
CONVERTED TO SIX BEDROOMS
BY
TWO AND A HALF BATHROOMS, TWO
AND A HALF BATHROOMS PERIOD.
ARE WE CLEAR IN THE MOTION AM
SECONDING IT AND I HAVE SUPPORT
BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE WE&apos;RE
CLEAR ON THE MOTION VERY
SATISFIED.
I&apos;M REWORK THIS AND GIVE IT TO
OUR STAFF PERSON BUT YOU&apos;RE
GOOD WITH WHAT YOU&apos;VE READ.
YES, OK AND I HAVE SUPPORT ALL
IN FAVOR OF THE ALTERATION
INDIVIDUAL BUT SORRY I&apos;M SORRY.
THANK YOU SIR.
I IS NOT HERE MIKE DANIEL YES
DAVE DEVOTEE YES I VOTE YES
ELIZABETH NELSON.
YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
AND JULIE GOOD.
ALL RIGHT THE ALTERATION PASSES
MOVING TO THE SECOND PART WHICH
IS THE VARIANCE ARE YOU DO YOU
WANT TO READ THAT ALSO?
SURE.
LET ME FINISH.
ALL RIGHT.
AND WE WILL HAVE A QUICK
INTERMISSION.
STRADIVARI WRITES THINGS DOWN
OR SOMEONE ELSE CAN GIVE THE
MOST IF THEY WANT.
I CAN TAKE EMOTION FROM SOMEONE
ELSE AND THAT IF WE WANT TO DO
THAT GET MOVING.
WE&apos;RE ALREADY RUNNING LONG.
DO I MOTION FOR THAT VARIANCE
IN ARE YOU READING YOU GOT A
FUNNY IT&apos;S THE FIRST PAGE THE
VARIANCE OR THE ALTERATIONS ON
THE SECOND PAGE
.
OK I COULD DO IT.
ALL RIGHT GO AHEAD MR DIVERSITY
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS
AND ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH TWO
ZERO ONE TWO FIVE TO ONE S
FOURTH AVENUE BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF TEN FEET
ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE LOT AND
A 15 FOOT VARIANCE ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY FROM
SECTION FIVE TWENTY POINT FOUR
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER A
NEW SIX BEDROOM UNIT IS TO BE
BUILT FOR THE SUBMITTED PLANS
CONNECTED TO THE REAR STRUCTURE
ON THE ON THE PROPERTY.
I HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE SUPPORT
.
I SUPPORT IT MR MADDIGAN WE&apos;RE
VOTING KANDACE HERE ALL WE NEED
.
OH YES I&apos;M SORRY I DO NOT HAVE
A FULL
RUNDOWN OF HOW WHAT THE
ORDER IS AND I&apos;M OUT
OF PRACTICE.
CAN WE HAVE A DISCUSSION SO
WE&apos;RE SUPPOSED TO DO A
DISCUSSION BEFORE WE READ THE
MOTION BUT BUT WELL IT DOESN&apos;T
MATTER YOU FIND I WASN&apos;T
HEARING ANY THE CRITERIA FOR
VARIANCE SO YOU WANT TO HELP ME
ON THAT LIKE A HEARING
PARTICULARLY TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTY OR HOW SELF
SELF-IMPOSED
GO FOR IT AS FAR
AS I CAN SEE THIS DOES NOT MEET
MOST OF THE CRITERIA THAT WE
HAVE ESTABLISHED FOR GRANTING A
VARIANCE.
I AGREE WITH MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONER IS GOOD.
THERE IS NO PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY THAT WILL RESULT.
THERE&apos;S NO SUBSTANTIAL
INTERVIEW TO ANSWER ANYTHING
FROM NOT GRANTING THIS
CONDITIONS AND CIRCUMSTANCES.
THE PROPOSED VARIANCE ARE NOT
SELF-IMPOSED PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY.
A VARIANCE SHALL BE THE MINIMUM
VARIANCE SO WE&apos;LL MAKE POSSIBLE
A REASONABLE USE OF THE LAND OR
STRUCTURE THAT&apos;S NOT MET.
THERE&apos;S ALREADY A REASONABLE
USE OF THE LAND AND THE
GRANTING OF THE ALTERATION IS
INCREASING THE CAPACITY OF THE
STRUCTURE.
ONE OF THE STRUCTURES THAT
EXIST AS FAR AS I CAN&apos;T SEE CAN
SEE I DON&apos;T SEE ANY OF THESE
BEING THE
THE I&apos;M SORRY
ELISABETH.
WELL I GUESS I I&apos;M I&apos;M
SYMPATHETIC TO THE SITUATION
BECAUSE ISN&apos;T IT ISN&apos;T THE IDEA
THAT THE CONFLICTING LAND IS
BUFFER IS AUTOMATICALLY THAT
REQUIREMENT IS AUTOMATICALLY
TRIGGERED WITH ANY CHANGES AND
THE THE ACTUAL ADDITIONS THAT
THEY&apos;RE MAKING IS NOT IS NOT IN
THE BUFFER RIGHT.
OR IS IT BECAUSE SO IN ORDER
FOR THEM TO COMPLY AND MAKE
THOSE ADDITIONS WOULD BE THEY
WOULD HAVE TO RIP DOWN PART
OF THE STRUCTURE AND I MEAN I
GUESS AH WE SAYING THAT BECAUSE
THIS IS NONCONFORMING AND IT&apos;S
VIOLATING THE LAND USE BUFFER
THEY WOULD NOT EVER BE ABLE TO
ADD TO THE FOOTPRINT BECAUSE
THAT IMMEDIATELY TRIGGERS THE
CLUB REQUIREMENT.
SO IT&apos;S SORT OF FROZEN IN TIME
AND WE CAN NEVER ADD A HOUSING
UNIT THERE.
I MEAN IF WE ADD THAT TO IT
ALMOST IT REALLY DOESN&apos;T MAKE A
WHOLE LOT OF SENSE TO ME.
IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE ADDING THAT
IT IS WORTHWHILE AND IF THERE
WERE ONLY OPTION TO MEET THE
STANDARD I GUESS I IT SEEMS TO
ME THAT THE STANDARD IS IS MET
AND SO FAR IS THAT IT&apos;S
IMPOSSIBLE FOR THEM TO ADD
ANYTHING WITHOUT IMMEDIATELY
TRIGGERING THIS REQUIREMENT.
THE REQUIREMENT IS IMPOSSIBLE
TO MEET WITHOUT TEARING DOWN
THE STRUCTURE
SO I AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING YOU SAID.
I ALSO THINK THAT A FEW THINGS
TO CONSIDER THIS IS NOT SOME
COMMUNITY&apos;S VIEW.
THE GRANTING OF VARIANCES
DIFFERENTLY THAN IT&apos;S BEING
APPLIED TONIGHT IN THE
COMMUNITY I WORK FOR EXAMPLE
ADDITIONS TO OUR CONFORMING
STRUCTURES DO NOT REQUIRE
VARIANCES SO LONG AS THE
ADDITIONS THEMSELVES ARE THE
CHANGES THEMSELVES ARE
COMPLYING WITH OUR CURRENT
REGULATIONS SUCH AS ONE SEEMS
TO DO IT SEEMS LIKE AN UNFAIR
AND BURDENSOME EXPECTATION FOR
A CLEARLY CONFORMING STRUCTURE
THAT I ASSUME WAS CONFORMING
UNDER A DIFFERENT SET
OF STANDARDS TO ADD A PORTION
IS CONFORMING TO OUR
REGULATIONS AND PUNISH THEM FOR
BEING FIVE FEET FROM A PARKING
LOT ON THE OTHER SIDE AND THEN
JUST KIND OF SEPARATELY FROM
THE STANDARDS I I THINK THAT
THE CLUB REGULATIONS ARE
REGRESSIVE AND FAIRLY DEMEANING
TO PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN
MULTI-FAMILY HOMES.
I LIVE IN AN APARTMENT.
I AM NOT A BAD NEIGHBOR.
I DON&apos;T THINK THE EXTRA
VEGETATION IN SPACE SHOULD BE
REQUIRED BETWEEN ME AND MY
HOUSING UNIT AND A SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSING UNIT OR TWO
FAMILY HOUSING UNIT I VIEW IN
OUR VIEW AS A PLACE THAT
VALUES, YOU KNOW, EXCLUSIVITY
AND HAS A LOT OF PROGRESSIVE
IDEALS.
THIS SEEMS TO FLY IN THE FACE
OF ALL OF THOSE IF WE&apos;RE SAYING
THAT PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN CERTAIN
TYPE OF HOUSING NEED TO BE SET
BACK FURTHER WITH MORE
BUFFERING JUST BECAUSE OF THEIR
STYLE OF HOUSING UNIT.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
BECAUSE I CAN&apos;T I CAN&apos;T TO PULL
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IN OTHER COMMENTS, REVERDY, I&apos;D
LIKE TO RESPOND TO BOTH
OF THESE THINGS.
UNFORTUNATELY WE&apos;RE APPLYING
STANDARDS THAT WE HAVE IN THIS
COMMUNITY, NOT THE COMMISSIONER
MADIGAN HASN&apos;T HIT THE
COMMUNITY HE WORKS FOR.
ADDITIONALLY, THE WE&apos;VE ALREADY
GRANTED AN ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE THIS IS
NOT SET IN CONCRETE THAT THEY
CAN&apos;T MAKE CHANGES.
THE CHANGES JUST HAVE TO BE
WITHIN THE EXISTING LAW OR THE
FOOTPRINT AND THIS GOES
SUBSTANTIALLY BEYOND THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT AND THAT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S TRIGGERING THIS VARIANCE
REQUEST.
I HAVE TO VOTE AGAINST IT AND
THERE HAVE BEEN SO MANY TIMES
WE VOTED AGAINST VARIANCES THAT
ARE WAY SMALLER THAN THIS AND
THE IF IF THERE WAS SOME
INJUSTICE BEING DONE TO THE
OWNERS THAT THEY COULDN&apos;T USE
THE PROPERTY.
IN FACT MAKE IT MORE USEFUL,
ADD MORE BEDROOMS, INCREASE THE
INCOME POTENTIAL FROM THE
PROPERTY, MAYBE I WOULD
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT BUT I&apos;M GOING TO APPLY
THE STANDARDS THAT WE HAVE TO
LIVE WITH WITHIN THAT WE&apos;VE
APPLIED TIME AND TIME AGAIN FOR
SEVERAL YEARS I&apos;VE BEEN ON THIS
BOARD MICHAEL DE SO APPRECIATE
EVERYONE&apos;S PERSPECTIVE.
THERE&apos;S ALWAYS ON THIS VERY
MUCH COMPELLED BY COMMISSIONER
NELSON AND COMMISSIONER MADIGAN
ON THIS.
I THINK COMMISSIONER NELSON&apos;S
POINT ABOUT THE UNIQUENESS
OF THIS LOT WHERE IF ANYTHING&apos;S
BUILT BECAUSE OF WHERE THE
OTHER STRUCTURES ARE LOCATED.
RIGHT.
THIS IS A UNIQUE LOT AND THAT
WE HAVE MULTIPLE DIFFERENT
STRUCTURES ON THE SAME LOT WE
DON&apos;T TYPICALLY SEE I DON&apos;T
REMEMBER SEEING ANY SINGLE
EXAMPLE IS IN MY SIX PLUS YEARS
ON THIS BOARD SO I WILL SAY
HAVING I DON&apos;T KNOW EVERY LOT
IN THE CITY BUT THIS IS FAIRLY
UNIQUE FROM WHAT I&apos;VE SEEN IN
MY SIX YEARS ON THIS BOARD AND
GIVEN THE FACT THAT IF THEY TRY
TO BUILD ANYTHING WITHIN THE
OTHER FOOTPRINT BECAUSE
OF WHERE THE OTHER UNITS ARE
LOCATED, THEY TO COMMISSIONER
NELSON&apos;S POINT WOULD HAVE TO
TEAR STUFF DOWN TO BE ABLE TO
BUILD AND WITH AND I&apos;M VERY
COMPELLED COMMISSIONER
MADIGAN&apos;S POINTS ABOUT THIS
TYPE OF ZONING.
I&apos;M GOING TO BE ONLY SUPPORTING
THIS VARIANCE IN OTHER COMMENTS
.
I DON&apos;T DISAGREE WITH ANYTHING
THERE WAS SAID BUT I KIND
OF FEEL LIKE I MEAN IS A LOT
FOR A NUMBER OF PIECES OF THE
EXISTING ZONING LAWS AND I
DON&apos;T LIKE BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT
WAS MY ROLE AS A COMMISSIONER
TO VOTE ACCORDING TO MY LIKES
AND IT&apos;S MY DUTY AS A
COMMISSIONER TO VOTE ACCORDING
TO THE CURRENT RULES.
SO I FEEL I KNOW ANYTHING I&apos;LL
SAY IS OUR WHOLE THE WHOLE
PURPOSE OF OUR BOARD IS TO GIVE
EXCEPTIONS TO THE ZONING
OF LITERALLY THE ONLY REASON
WE&apos;RE HERE IS TO GIVE
EXCEPTIONS TO THE ZONING RULES
IF IF WE HAD TO APPLY THE SURE.
RIGHT.
BUT THE BROADER POINT WE ARE
EVERYTHING WE VOTE ON IS AN
EXCEPTION TO THE RULES AND IN
EVERY CASE BUT I UNDERSTAND YOU
SAY IF I COULD JUST ADD TWO
COMMENTS AND IF YOU&apos;RE LOOKING
FOR A HARDSHIP I JUST WOULD SAY
THAT THESE STRUCTURES WERE
BUILT ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO WAY
BEFORE THIS THESE ORDINANCES
WERE PUT INTO PLACE THAT WAS
BUILT IN NINETEEN FIFTY ONE
OF THE STRUCTURES IN THE SOUTH
THAT ACTUALLY OVER THE PROPERTY
LINE.
AND SO TO THIS POINT IT&apos;S TRUE
WE&apos;D HAVE TO TEAR THE STRUCTURE
DOWN IN ORDER TO BUILD A CLUB.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID, IF
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FOR A HARDSHIP
THAT WOULD TRULY BE A HARDSHIP
THAT THESE STRUCTURES WERE
BUILT OVER A HUNDRED YEARS
PRIOR TO THE AUDIENCE BEING IN
PLACE AND THEN ALSO I&apos;M
THINKING ABOUT INSTALLING CLUBS
IN BUFFERING FROM ADJACENT USES
THAT ARE THE SAME TYPE OF USES
.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S JUST ONE
OTHER THOUGHT THAT YOU KNOW, IS
IS THEREFORE WHY WHY WE&apos;VE BEEN
THROWING CLUBS ARE MANDATORY
FOR BUFFERING FROM LIKE USES
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION POINTS
?
I BELIEVE AT THIS POINT WE&apos;VE
HAD DISCUSSIONS WE CAN MOVE ON
TO MOTION MOTION WHICH MADE IT
HAS BEEN MADE OK, DO WE HAVE
SUPPORT
IN OK RIGHT WE DID THAT
ALREADY OUT OF ORDER THEN LET&apos;S
TAKE A ROLL CALL.
WE HAVE SUPPORT FOR THAT.
CANDIS RO I&apos;M SORRY SHE&apos;S NOT
HERE.
MIKE DANIEL YES.
DAVE DAVE HAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHAIR VOTES NO COMMISSIONER
NELSON YES.
COMMISSIONER MADIGAN YES.
COMMISSIONER GOOD NO
IT WOULD
APPEAR THAT I AM SORRY THEY
REQUESTED DENIED
IF THE FIVE
OF THREE SO THERE IS AN ITEM
MOVING TO THE NEXT POSITION AND
WE WILL OFFICIALLY MAKE THE
VOICE THAT THIS HAS BEEN
DENIED.
I&apos;M SORRY MOVING ON
OUT OF THE
QUESTION AT THE BEGINNING OR
THIRTEEN DIVISION TWENTY OH I
THINK ITEM TWO TONIGHT TWENTY
TWO DASH TWELVE EIGHTY SEVEN OR
THIRTEEN SOUTH DIVISION STREET.
MR BARRETT PLEASE TZVIA TWENTY
TWO THAT&apos;S TWENTY THIRTEEN FOR
THIRTEEN SOUTH DIVISION STREET
PERSON DENNIS BASILE&apos;S PROPERTY
OWNERS ARE REQUESTING RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CREATE HAVE A LIVING SPACE IN
THE BASEMENT THE SIXTY SEVEN
BEDROOM RENTAL HOME AND THREE
FLOORS OF LIVING SPACE.
THE RENOVATION PROJECT WILL
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
60 MINUTES TO FOUR UNITS WHILE
INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF BEDROOMS TO TWENTY.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR
FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT AND IS NOT
PERFORMING FOR WHAT AREA WITH
AND SETBACKS.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
EAST SIDE SOUTH DIVISION STREET
DUE SOUTH OF EAST WILLIAM
STREET.
THE STRUCTURE IS THE NORTHERN
PROPERTY FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN&apos;S INSTITUTE
OF SOCIAL RESEARCH.
THE RESIDENCE WAS CONSTRUCTED
IN NINETEEN ON ONE AND HAS
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED FIFTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION WOULD
CREATE CREATE UNIT ONE IN THE
BASEMENT FIVE BEDROOMS AND
THREE BATHROOMS.
UNIT TWO IS TO BE LOCATED ON
THE FIRST FLOOR AS A SIX
BEDROOM THREE BATHROOM UNIT
UNIT THREE WILL BE ON THE
SECOND FLOOR AND CONSIST OF SIX
BEDROOMS AND THREE BATHROOMS
ALSO THE THIRD STOREY WELL
HOUSE UNIT FOUR WITH THREE
BEDROOMS AND TWO BATHROOMS.
ALL RENOVATIONS WILL TAKE PLACE
WITHIN THE CURRENT ENVELOPE
OF THE HOME AND THERE WILL BE
NO CHANGES TO THE LENGTH, WIDTH
OR HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY WILL BE
UPGRADED SIGNIFICANTLY WITH
SPRAY FOAM INSULATION AND HIGH
ENERGY HIGH EFFICIENCY
APPLIANCES WHILE BRINGING THE
BUILDING UP TO OUR MODERN
BUILDING, THE OWNERS PLAN TO
ADD BICYCLE PARKING SPACES AND
OUTDOOR PUBLIC BICYCLE PUMP
STATION.
THE PUMP STATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR ALL USERS OF THE
ADJACENT DIVISION STREET
BIKEWAY.
SO IF YOU REMEMBER IN MAY THIS
SAME PROPERTY CAME BEFORE US
AND THE ALTERATION WAS NOT
GRANTED AND SO THEY&apos;VE
REAPPLIED AND IT&apos;S UP TO THE
BOARD TO VOTE WHETHER THEY WANT
TO HEAR THIS CASE THIS EVENING
OR NOT, WHETHER THERE&apos;S BEEN
SAID SIGNIFICANT CHANGES OR
CHANGES TO THE APPLICATION
.
SO YOU HAVE THIS WAS A SHORT
PRESENTATION FOR THIS SITE
BASED ON THE FACT THAT WE&apos;VE
SEEN IT BEFORE.
WELL, AT THIS POINT BEFORE WE
GO ANY FURTHER, I THINK WE
SHOULD YOU SHOULD DECIDE
WHETHER THERE&apos;S BEEN A
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE TO THE
APPLICATION AND WHETHER YOU
WANT TO HEAR THE PETITION
AGAIN.
I BELIEVE WE NEED TO MOVE TO
NOT NOT HERE THE PETITION THAT
NO, JUST A VOICE TO SIDE THERE
WOULD BE DISCUSSION WHETHER YOU
GUYS THINK THAT WOULD BE HEARD
IN THIS EVENING, WHAT ARE THE
CHANGES THAT ARE ADDED
COMMUNITY BENEFITS WITH A
BICYCLE PARKING BASIS, A PUMP
STATION IN THE FRONT YARD.
SO THAT&apos;S THE ONLY STATEMENT.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
DO WE EXCUSE IT TYPICALLY WORK
THAT WAY THAT THEY OFFER A
PUBLIC BENEFIT TO JUSTIFY AN
EXCEPTION OF TZVIA TO DECIDE
WHETHER THEY FEEL LIKE THIS
APPLICATION HAS CHANGED BECAUSE
IT DOESN&apos;T I MEAN I DON&apos;T EVEN
SEE THAT IN THE WORKSHEET THE
IDEA OF A PUBLIC BENEFIT I
DON&apos;T SEE HOW THAT&apos;S RELEVANT
,
MR COMMISSIONER.
GOOD.
I&apos;M A LITTLE LOST BECAUSE I
WASN&apos;T AT THE MEETING SO IF
SOMEBODY WAS SO SURE TO GIVE
ALL DIRECTION SO WE THIS ITEM
CAME FORTH IN MAY.
THERE ARE ONLY FIVE
COMMISSIONERS THAT MEETING THE
VOTE WAS FOUR TO ONE.
SO WE WE HAVE TO HAVE THE
MINIMUM OF FIVE VOTES.
IT WAS DENIED AND THIS IS A
REAL APPLICATION FOR THAT.
SO IT&apos;S THE ALTERATION ITSELF,
THE NUMBER OF BEDROOMS SEEMS TO
BE THE SAME OTHER THAN THE
ADDITION OF THE BIKE AND YEAH I
WILL SAY RIGHT.
ONE OF OUR CRITERIA FOR
NONCONFORMING IS THAT IT WILL
NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT
ON THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
I THINK HAVING MORE BICYCLE
PARKING COULD BE ARGUED TO HAVE
LESS OF A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT.
SO TO ME THIS IS A DIFFERENT A
DIFFERENT APPLICATION.
I WOULD BE HAPPY TO RECONSIDER
THE QUESTIONS THEN SHALL WE
RECONSIDER?
I GUESS I&apos;D TAKE VOICE VOTE TO
ALL IN FAVOR WHAT ROLE DO I
WANT TO ROLL CALL AND
COMMISSIONER DANIEL YES.
TO RECONSIDER MR REVATHI NO
COMMISSIONER FREHLEY&apos;S YES.
COMMISSIONER NELSON YES
COMMISSIONER MADDIGAN YES
COMMISSIONER GOOD.
YES WE WILL RECONSIDER THIS.
SO IF YOU&apos;RE TURNING YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITOR&apos;S THE
FIRST SLIDE SHOWS THE LOCATION
MAP THE SUBJECT PROPERTIES
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW IN THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN YOU SEE
DIVISION STREET AND WILLIAM
STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE SURVEY AND SOME
PHOTOS OF THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY
THE APPLICANT.
ANOTHER SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
THESE ARE THE FLOOR PLANS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT.
THE EXISTING FIRST FLOOR PLAN
AND THE EXISTING SECOND FLOOR
PLAN, EXISTING THIRD FLOOR PLAN
AND THE EXISTING BASEMENT PLAN
WHICH IS JUST A NON HABITABLE
SPACE CURRENTLY THESE ARE THE
FOUR PLANES THAT WERE SUBMITTED
FOR THE NEW UNIT.
YOU SEE NEW FIRST FLOOR.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE CONVERTED TO A
SIX BEDROOM UNIT ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
THE NEW SECOND FLOOR APARTMENT
NUMBER THREE WILL BE ANOTHER
SIX BEDROOM UNIT AND NEW THIRD
FLOOR WILL BE A UNIT FOR AND
THE NEW BASEMENT IS UNIT NUMBER
ONE.
SO REDUCING FROM SIX UNITS DOWN
TO FOUR UNITS.
THESE ARE PHOTOS OF THE
PROPERTY WE HAVE WHEN I TOOK MY
INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE FRONT FACADE OF THE
STRUCTURE.
THIS IS THE NEXT SLIDE LOOKING
DOWN THE DRIVEWAY, THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWING THE REAR OF THE
EXISTING PROPERTY AND THIS IS
THE BACK OF THE PROPERTY, THE
PARKING AREA AND ABOVE YOU SEE
THE ABIDING PROPERTY TO THE
EAST MORE THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY, THE PARKING LOT.
THIS IS THE PROPERTY DIRECTLY
TO THE NORTH, THE MULTI-FAMILY
PROPERTY ADJACENT ON THE NORTH
SIDE AND THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN PROPERTY ON THE
SOUTH SIDE.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I&apos;LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
DOES THE BOARD HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMISSIONER?
GOOD.
IS THERE A METHOD FOR BUILDING
DEPARTMENT TO ENSURE THAT THEY
DO THE RIGHT LEGISLATION THAT
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING AS THE
COMMUNITY METHOD
?
SO WE WILL WHEN THEY SUBMIT THE
PLANS TO GO THROUGH THE ZONING
REVIEW, THE ZONING AND PLANNING
REVIEW WILL MAKE SURE THAT THE
THAT THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS
THEY&apos;RE PROMISING WILL BE
INSTALLED AS PART OF THE
BUILDING PERMIT QUESTION.
QUICK QUESTION HOW MANY
BEDROOMS EXIST NOW?
I COULD ASK THE DEVELOPER THE
HOUSE BECAUSE THAT&apos;S SEVEN
VETERANS NOW SO THEY&apos;RE GOING
FROM SEVEN TO ONE.
CORRECT BY REDUCING THE NUMBER
OF UNITS SO
THERE ARE NO OTHER
QUESTIONS TO THE APPLICANT.
PLEASE STEP FORWARD
.
OH, CAN WE CAN HEAR YOU OK,
PERFECT.
&gt;&gt; THANKS A LOT FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION ONCE AGAIN ON
THIS PROPERTY.
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE IT.
SO YES, THE INTERIOR IS EXACTLY
THE SAME AS IT WAS THAT WE
PRESENTED THIS AND MANY OF IT&apos;S
GOING ON THE FOUR UNITS IT&apos;S
GOING TO HAVE A FIVE BEDROOM
THREE BATHROOM UNIT THE
BASEMENT WHICH THERE&apos;S NO
LIVING SPACE THERE CURRENTLY
SIX BEDROOM, THREE BATHS ON
BOTH THE FIRST AND THE SECOND
FLOOR AND THEN THREE BEDROOMS
AND TWO BARS ON THE TOP FLOOR
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; OH, IT&apos;S GOING TO BE FULLY
GUARDED.
EVERYTHING&apos;S GOING TO GO UP TO
THE MOST HIGH EFFICIENCY YOU
KNOW, THE APPLIANCES THAT IT&apos;S
GOING TO HAVE NO ELECTRIC NEW
PLUMBING.
EVERYTHING&apos;S GOING TO BE
COMPLETELY UPGRADED.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE WAY MORE
HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT FOR FOR THE
BETTER FOR THE TENANT AND JUST
JUST EVERYTHING ABOUT IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE WAY MORE USER
FRIENDLY.
EVERYONE&apos;S GOING TO HAVE THEIR
OWN WASHER DRYER IN THEIR UNIT
.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE PEOPLE SHARED
BATHROOMS AND SO IT&apos;S JUST JUST
OVERALL IT&apos;S GOING TO BE A
MUCH, MUCH UPGRADED PROPERTY IN
THIS LOCATION RIGHT DOWNTOWN
PRIME LOCATION I THINK WE
EVERYONE DESERVES IT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S JUST GOING TO
BE BETTER FOR EVERYONE ON THE
WHOLE.
AND THEN ALSO WHAT WE ARE
PROPOSING LIKE LIKE JOHN HAD
MENTIONED IS THAT TO GIVE YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE ISSUES LAST
TIME WAS THAT IT DIDN&apos;T HAVE
ANY COMMUNITY BENEFIT.
SO WHAT WE WANTED TO DO WAS WE
WANTED TO GIVE IT SO IT&apos;S RIGHT
ON THE BEAUTIFUL NEW DIVISION
STREET BASICALLY THEY JUST
DIDN&apos;T WANT TO PAY FOR IT.
IT&apos;S REALLY, REALLY USER
FRIENDLY.
IT&apos;S A GREAT, GREAT ADDITION TO
DOWNTOWN.
WE WANTED TO IN A PUBLIC
BICYCLE, YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE
ONES THAT CAN WITHSTAND THE
ELEMENTS AND IF YOU SPRAY
ANYONE ON THERE, THERE&apos;S A ONE
THAT CURRENTLY EXISTS.
I KNOW THERE&apos;S ONE CURRENTLY IN
FRONT OF THE LIBRARY WHICH IS
AROUND THE CORNER AND WILLIAM
STREET.
BUT YOU KNOW, IF YOU HAD A BLOW
OUT OF YOUR CAR OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT, THAT WOULD STILL BE
A LITTLE BIT FARTHER THAN YOU&apos;D
WANT TO WALK IF YOU BUMP RIGHT
NEARBY.
SO AND ALSO WE WANT TO ADD SOME
RINGS THERE WHICH THEY WOULDN&apos;T
CREATE ANY ANY IMPENETRABLE
SURFACE THERE.
SO WATER WOULD STILL STILL BE
ABLE TO DRAIN INTO THE EARTH
AND THERE&apos;S A WAY WE CAN
ANCHORED IT TO THE GROUND SO IT
COULD BE USED.
BUT YOU KNOW, IT DOESN&apos;T CREATE
ANY KIND OF BURDEN ON THE
PROPERTY OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT
AS WELL BUT PROBABLY
SIGNIFICANTLY UPGRADED LIKE I
SAID, EFFICIENCY WINDOWS
EVERYTHING&apos;S GOING TO BE DONE
TOP OF THE LINE AND IT WILL BE
QUITE, QUITE QUITE SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT OVER WHAT&apos;S THERE
AND WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY HAPPY TO
PROPOSE THIS.
SO I THINK BECAUSE WE&apos;VE
ALREADY PRESENTED IT IN MAY
THERE ARE NO OTHER THINGS TO
TALK ABOUT BUT I&apos;M HAPPY TO
TAKE ANY MORE QUESTIONS, HAVE
THEM TO THE BOARD, HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS?
YEAH, MR NELSON, HOW HOW MUCH
AH DO YOU HAVE AN ESTIMATE
OF HOW MUCH YOU&apos;RE INVESTING TO
MAKE THIS BICYCLE PUMP STATION
ALSO?
&gt;&gt; SO I DID I SENT ALONG A A
YOU KNOW, KIND OF AN EXAMPLE
OF WHAT WE COULD DO SO THE PUMP
STATION ITSELF IS ABOUT A
THOUSAND DOLLARS EVERY DAY AND
THEN YOU KNOW THE RANGE IT
DEPENDS HOW MANY WE CAN FIT IN
THERE AND THAT&apos;S ALSO SOMETHING
WE&apos;LL HAVE TO SPEAK TO THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT ON WHEN
WE&apos;RE GOING FOR THE FULL
APPROVAL ON AIR.
WE&apos;RE OBVIOUSLY GOING TO PUT AS
MUCH BICYCLE PARKING IN AS WE
POSSIBLY CAN
FOR BOTH
INSTALLATION AND BUYING PARTS,
YOU KNOW, IT JUST DEPENDS ON
HOW MUCH WE CAN ACTUALLY GET
GET YOU KNOW, PROPERLY FITTED
INTO INTO THE FRONT OF THE
PROPERTY.
AND IF WE CAN PUT MORE IN THE
REAR SO THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE YOU
KNOW, THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE A
REWORKING OF THE FIRE ESCAPE.
SO IT&apos;S GOING TO BE MORE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE PROPERTY WHICH
WILL ACTUALLY PULL IT OUT
OF THE SETBACKS ON THE SIDE,
WHICH IS WHICH IS ALSO
SOMETHING THAT YOU KNOW, I&apos;M
SURE THE NEIGHBOR MIGHT
APPRECIATE AS WELL.
BUT IF WE CAN ADD MORE BICYCLE
PARKING IN THE REAR ONCE WE GO
TO ACTUALLY GET THIS APPROVED,
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE&apos;RE
COMPLETELY ON WITH DOING.
YOU KNOW, 20 OCCUPANTS RIGHT.
THE BIKE WAY THERE&apos;S GOING TO
BE YOU KNOW, WE ARE GOING TO
ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO TO USE
BICYCLE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE,
ESPECIALLY IN THIS DOWNTOWN
LOCATION.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO
EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THERE ARE A BIKE RACK
IS GOING TO HAVE A SHELTER OVER
THEM ON YOU.
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE CAN
CERTAINLY DO.
BUT ONE ONE THING I WAS TRYING
TO SHY AWAY FROM IS WE DIDN&apos;T
WANT TO POUR ANY ADDITIONAL
CONCRETE AND USUALLY IF YOU
WERE GOING TO HAVE A SHELTER
LIKE THAT YOU PROBABLY WOULD
OF COURSE HAVE THERE AS WELL.
SO I THINK WE WERE TRYING TO
SHY AWAY FROM THAT.
BUT YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT WE SEE SOME DEMAND OR WE
CERTAINLY HAVE NO ISSUE OF .
THANKS.
NO, THE QUESTION.
ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;LL MOVE INTO PUBLIC COMMENT
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO A ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS FOR THREE
MINUTES.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU THINK THROUGH
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
COLLEGE SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE THREE ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE THOUSAND
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE BOARD REMOTELY?
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO COMMISSIONER
COMMENTS.
WE HAVE ANY COMMISSIONER NELSON
ACTUALLY I THINK I&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK FIRST.
I WANT TO HEAR WHAT DAVE HAS TO
SAY.
THIS IS AN ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE STANDARDS FOR US TO
EVALUATE THIS ARE MUCH MORE
LENIENT THAN IF THEY WERE
REQUESTING VARIANCE.
ONE OF THE ONES THAT CAME
BEFORE I WANT TO THANK THE
DEVELOPER FOR THINKING
OF PUTTING THIS BICYCLE PUBLIC
BENEFIT IN THERE BECAUSE IT IS
I TAKE NOTE THAT IT IS RIGHT
THERE ON DIVISION STREET AND IT
COULD BE A BENEFIT THAT GETS
SUBSTANTIAL USE.
HOPEFULLY IT&apos;LL BE WELL SIGNED
SO IT&apos;LL BE OBVIOUS THAT IT&apos;S
ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC USERS
OF THE BIKEWAY.
AND I WANT TO THANK THE
DEVELOPER FOR FOR DOING AT I I
THINK I WAS THE ONE VOTE
AGAINST THIS LAST TIME AS I
LOOK AT THIS IN THE STANDARDS
THAT WE NEED TO APPROVE IT AND
THE FACT THAT DEVELOPERS STEP
FORWARD WITH A NEW PUBLIC
BENEFIT AND THE WAY THIS IS
SITUATED, IT REALLY RIGHT THERE
BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY
STRUCTURE AND ANOTHER
MULTIFAMILY IT&apos;S AND THIS
ALTERATION IS A MODEST REQUEST
AS FAR AS I CAN SEE AND I
APPRECIATE THE PUBLIC BENEFIT
THEY&apos;RE ADDING.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
BY THE BOARD NOT COMMISSIONER?
I&apos;M I&apos;M GLAD TO HEAR THAT DAVE
IS IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
I WILL SAY I REMEMBERING THAT I
WAS IN SUPPORT THIS LAST TIME
IT WOULD BE INCONSISTENT FOR ME
NOT TO SUPPORT IT AGAIN.
BUT I I DO FEEL FUNNY ABOUT THE
IDEA OF LIKE JUST INSTALLING
LIKE A THOUSAND DOLLAR BIKE
RACK AND THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN
THAT FEELS LIKE LIKE IT IF
THERE WAS OPPOSITION I I DON&apos;T
HAVE OPPOSITION TO BUT IF I DID
I WOULD NOT BE PERSUADED BY A
THOUSAND DOLLARS WORTH OF A
BIKE STATION I&apos;LL JUST SAY THAT
BUT I AM IN SUPPORT OF THIS
BECAUSE I, I APPRECIATE ADDING
UNITS IN THIS LOCATION.
I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD PLACE TO
GO.
I THINK I THINK THAT
LEGITIMATELY THAT WAS THE
PUBLIC BENEFIT WAS ADDING THOSE
HOUSING UNITS SO I FELT GOOD
ABOUT THIS THE FIRST TIME.
I JUST IT FEELS A LITTLE FUNNY
ABOUT THE BIKE RACK BEING
ENOUGH TO PUSH IT OVER THE TOP.
THAT&apos;S ALL I&apos;LL SAY.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER GRANITE&apos;S
COMMISSIONER GOOD.
YOU AGREE WITH A LITTLE BIT
FEELS LIKE A STRETCH TO ME.
THE PROBLEM IS THE PUBLIC AND I
THINK THAT YOU CAN MOST
DEFINITELY MAKE PUBLIC SHELTER
WITHOUT WHEN IT COULD EVEN HAVE
IT IN AND IT JUST KIND OF THIS
IS ONE OF THESE WEIRD THINGS I
THINK THINGS WITH UNITS ARE NOT
HEALTHY IN GENERAL BUT IT&apos;S OK
BY THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT SO
I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE YES MR.
DENHA.
YEAH, THE ONLY THING I&apos;LL ADD
IS
IS I APPRECIATE THE THE
COMMENTS I&apos;VE HEARD EVERYONE SO
FAR TODAY AND I KNOW I&apos;VE GOT
INTO A VOCIFEROUS DEBATE ABOUT
THIS LAST TIME WITH MY MUCH
RESPECTED COLLEAGUE
COMMISSIONER DIVERSITY I THINK
.
YEAH.
I MEAN I WAS IN SUPPORT OF THIS
BEFORE.
I DO THINK THE BIKE RACK YES.
I AGREE IT&apos;S NOT A MASSIVE A
MASSIVE INVESTMENT BUT I I
LITERALLY ON THE WAY HERE RODE
THAT DIVISION STREET BIKE PATH
WHICH IS WONDERFUL AND THE MORE
PEOPLE THAT HOPEFULLY START
RIDING THAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED
MORE PLACES TO PARK BIKES AND
IT IS A BIKE PUMP TOO SO RIGHT.
I LIKE NOT PAYING TWO DOLLARS
TO PUMP MY BIKE TIRES JUST LIKE
EVERYBODY ELSE SO I I THINK
THAT&apos;S A NICE BENEFIT.
SO APPRECIATE THE DEVELOPER AT
LEAST OFFERING SOMETHING.
I AGREE IT&apos;S NOT A MONUMENTAL
ADDITION TO THE PREVIOUS
APPLICATION BUT I&apos;M I&apos;M GOING
TO VOTE YES.
I COULD MAKE A MOTION IF YOU&apos;RE
READY FOR THE MOTION REVERDY
ZEBA TWENTY TWO DASH TO ZERO
ONE THREE FOUR ONE THREE S
DIVISION STREET ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALZUGARAY
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW NEW HEARABLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT OF AN EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RENTAL STRUCTURE
.
THE NEW BASEMENT UNIT WILL
CREATE HABITABLE LIVING SPACE
AND A SIX UNIT SEVEN BEDROOM
RENTAL HOME.
THE RENOVATION PROJECT WILL
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
SIX TO FOUR UNITS WHILE
INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF BEDROOMS TO TWENTY.
THE CONSTRUCTION MUST COMPLY
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS TO
HAVE SUPPORT.
COMMISSIONER AND SUPPORTS AND
WILL HAVE A ROLL CALL VOTE AND
THIS WAS A SECOND VOTE ON THIS.
WE VOTED ONCE TO RECONSIDER.
WE&apos;RE VOTING NOW TO APPROVE OR
NOT APPROVE THE APPLICATION.
MCDANIEL YES.
DAVID VARDY YES.
CHAIR VOTE YES WAS NELSON YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
JULIE GOOD.
YES THE APPLICATION PASSES
UNANIMOUS VOTE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
MOVING ON TO ITEM HERE FOR
TWENTY TWO DASH TWELVE EIGHTY
NINE THREE THREE SIX FIVE
WASHTENAW AVENUE MR BARE
ACTUALLY CHRIS CHANG FROM THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT IS GOING TO
PRESENT THIS PETITION.
OK CAN ANYBODY HEAR ME?
YES SIR.
OK GOOD EVENING.
&gt;&gt; ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AS
WAS MENTIONED I&apos;M CHRIS CHANG.
I AM THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AND I ALSO DO THE SIGN PERMIT
REVIEWS SO I WILL BE DOING THE
PRESENTATION FOR ZIBA TWO TWO
DASH TWO ZERO ONE FOUR LOCATED
AT THREE THREE SIX FIVE
WASHTENAW AVENUE KEVIN DEIDRE&apos;S
METRO DETROIT SCIENCE IS
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT TO FOUR POINT FIVE
FEET TO PIPE PLACEMENT AND
NUMBER TWO ALLOW TO ALL SIDES
ON THE SOUTH AND WEST SIDE
OF THE BUILDING TO EXCEED THE
ALLOWED HEIGHT REQUIREMENT
OF TWENTY FEET FOR WALL SIZE.
THE APPLICANTS ARE SEEKING A
TEN FOOT VARIANCE TO ALLOW THE
TWO ALL SIDES TO BE INSTALLED
THIRTY FEET ABOVE GRADE THE
SITE ALSO KNOWN AS CHARMEUSE
PLACED ZONE C THREE FRINGE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND IT AND
JOHN ARE YOU GOING TO GO
THROUGH THE POWERPOINT WHILE I
DESCRIBE THE SLIDES?
EXCELLENT.
SO HERE&apos;S THE MAP AS YOU CAN
SEE OUTLINED IN YELLOW THAT&apos;S
CHALMERS PLACE.
IT IS ZONE C THREE.
THAT&apos;S FRINGE COMMERCIAL.
IT&apos;S SURROUNDED BY FRINGE
COMMERCIAL TO THE TO THE EAST,
TO THE WEST, TO THE SOUTH.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE IS
RESIDENTIAL TO THE NORTH NEXT
LIKE HERE IS THE AREA
OF CHARMEUSE PLACE.
IT IS LOCATED TO THE EAST
OF HERE ON PARKWAY NORTH ON
WASHTENAW SOUTH AND JUST TO THE
WEST OF CHALMERS DRIVE.
THIS IS THE BLOWN OUT VERSION.
YOU CAN PROBABLY SEE THE
RESIDENTIAL TO THE NORTH AND
ALL OF THE OFFICE AND BUSINESS
USES AGAIN AS A BALL OF THE
CHARMEUSE PLACE DEVELOPMENT
THAT WAS I BELIEVE APPROVED
BACK IN SOMETIME AND LIKE TOUTE
WITHIN TWENTY FIVE NEXT SLIDE
THIS SLIDE WAS PRESENTED BY THE
APPLICANT.
I WOULD PROBABLY DISREGARD MOST
OF THE SIGNS THAT ARE BEING
SHOWN ON HERE BECAUSE WHAT
WE&apos;RE REALLY CONCENTRATING ON
FROM THE NEXT SLIDE YET IS YOU
CAN GO TO THE NEXT SLIDE.
IT&apos;S A REALLY CONCENTRATING ON
TWO SIDES NOT THE BLADE SIDE
NOT THE LOWER SIDES, NOT THE
WINDOW SIGNS ETC. SO THIS
VISION THIS IS APPROXIMATELY A
SIXTEEN SQUARE FOOT SIDE THAT&apos;S
ABOUT AS YOU CAN SEE FROM WHAT
THE HEIGHT THAT THEY&apos;RE SHOWING
IT&apos;S ABOVE THE APPOINTMENT
OF TWENTY FEET WHERE THE SIDES
MUST BE LOCATED.
SO THEY ARE ASKING FOR A TEN
FOOT VARIANCE ON THE ELEVATION
FOR THIS SIGN.
NEXT SLIDE
AND THAT&apos;S A CLOSE
UP OF THE SIXTY SQUARE FOOT
LOGO SIDE THAT THEY HAVE THE
SELF ELEVATION THAT&apos;S LOCATED
APPROXIMATELY THIRTY FEET ABOVE
AND THIS IS THE CITIZEN&apos;S
BACKSIDE.
IT WILL BE ON THE LEFT SIDE
OF THE BUILDING ELEVATION AND
THIS ONE&apos;S APPROXIMATELY 15
SQUARE FEET AS I THINK WE SEE
IN THE NEXT SLIDE YOU CAN SEE
THAT IT IS EXCEEDING THE 20
FOOT HEIGHT AND AGAIN PROBABLY
APPROXIMATELY 30 FEET HIGH.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE PROBABLY ON
THE FACADE OF THIS BUILDING
THERE ARE WINDOWS WHICH WOULD
PROBABLY BE AROUND WHERE THE 20
FOOT HEIGHT LIMITATION WOULD
EXIST.
SO NEXT SLIDE AGAIN THIS THE
SLIDE OF THE OF THE BLADE SIDE
THAT WAS INCLUDED IN THE PACKET
.
THIS IS AN ALLOWABLE SIDE.
IT&apos;S AT THE CORNER OF THE
BUILDING.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT REALLY GOING TO
DISCUSS A SIDE OF THE BLADE
SIDE.
HERE&apos;S A PICTURE OF THE
EXISTING USE AT THE AT THE
CORNER THERE OF OF CHARMEUSE
PLACE AND SIGNS ARE TAKEN DOWN
FOR THE MOST PART BUT YOU COULD
SEE IN THE UPPER ELEVATION
THAT&apos;S WHERE THE LOGO SIDE
WOULD BE PROPOSED.
YEP, EXACTLY.
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE MR BARRETT IS
POINTING THE ARROW NEXT SLIDE
GET ON THE WEST ELEVATION
OF THE BUILDING WHERE THE
CITIZEN BANKSY WOULD GO.
THIS IS JUST LOOKING PROBABLY
FROM THE PARKING LOT LOOKING
DOWN NEXT SLIDE
GET HERE.
THERE IS WHAT&apos;S EXISTING AS FAR
AS SOME OF THE BUSINESSES THERE
AND THE SILO DESIGN LOCATIONS
AT THE CHALMERS PLAZA NEXT THAT
CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I AM OPEN TO ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MAY HAVE.
MAYBE THIS IS A LITTLE BIT OF A
BACKGROUND.
YOU KNOW, THE SAME CODE WAS
WITH SILENT AND IT WAS OF PRE
TWENTY IN TWENTY WHEN WE
APPROVED THE REVISED CODE .
SO AS PART OF THE DISCUSSIONS
THAT WE HAD AS STAFF WITH THE
PUBLIC AND AND WITH OUR
CONSULTANTS THAT WE DECIDED TO
KEEP SIGNS WITHIN THE FIRST TWO
STORIES OF TWENTY FEET OF THE
BUILDING SINCE WE&apos;RE GETTING
MORE AND MORE HIGHER BUILDINGS
IN THE DOWNTOWN OR AT LEAST IN
THE INNER AREA.
SO WE WERE REALLY TRYING TO
CONCENTRATE SIGNS THE FIRST
TWENTY FEET AND THEN IF YOU&apos;RE
BUILDING HAPPEN TO BE GREATER
THAN FORTY YOU COULD DO THINGS
TOWARDS THE UPPER PORTION
OF THE BUILDING.
SO THAT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND BUT I&apos;M HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE
ON THE SITE BECAUSE THE BOARD
MEMBERS HAVE QUESTIONED MR
REVERDY.
I&apos;M CHRIS.
I&apos;M LOOKING THROUGH MY PACKET.
WHAT ARE ALL THESE DETROIT
LINKS OR IS THAT ANOTHER
DIFFERENT ONE?
THE DETROIT WING COMPANY THAT I
THINK WAS A MISTAKE.
I DID HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH
THE APPLICANT AND THEY ARE SURE
WHY THOSE ARE IN THE PACKET
EITHER I CAN ONLY STATE THAT WE
HAVE A NEW PERMITTING SYSTEM
OF STREAM AND WE&apos;RE STILL
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW THOSE
ATTACHMENTS GOT IN THERE.
SO PLEASE DISREGARD THOSE.
THOSE ARE JUST THE WRONG SIGN
ELEVATIONS.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE THE CITIZENS
BANK, NOT THE DETROIT ONE
COMPANY.
WHOEVER UPLOADED THE
APPLICATION UPLOADED THE WRONG
ELEVATION DRAWINGS BUT IT IS
THE CITIZENS BANK.
AND THEN WAS THIS THE I&apos;M
TRYING TO ACCLIMATE MYSELF SO
ACROSS CHALMERS IS PAISANOS
CORRECT?
YEAH.
IF YOU&apos;RE GOING TO THE
EASTBOUND AND THEN THIS WAS
ELEVATION BURGER IN HERE AT ONE
TIME I BELIEVE IT WAS YES.
OK SO I KNOW WHERE IT IS.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
WITH THE APPLICANT STEP FORWARD
TO OH I&apos;M SORRY I DIDN&apos;T SEE
YOU.
NO PROBLEM.
QUICK QUESTION DID I HEAR THIS
RIGHT WHERE YOU SAID IF THE
BUILDING IS TALLER THAN FORTY
FIVE FEET THE CODE ALLOWS YOU
TO PUT THE SIGN AT THE TOP
OF THE BUILDING BUT IF IT&apos;S
SHORTER THAN FORTY FIVE FEET
THE SITE CAN ONLY BE 20 FEET
WITHOUT A VARIANCE
UNDERSTANDING THAT ACCURATELY
THAT IS CORRECT.
OK THANK YOU.
SO HOW TALL IS IT RIGHT HERE
AGAIN THE BUILDING IS
APPROXIMATELY LIKE THIRTY TWO
AND A HALF FEET OK OK YEAH THAT
MAKES SENSE WHERE THEY TO PUT
ASIDE ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
DO I HAVE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT IF THE APPLICATION
PLEASE STEP FORWARD OR SPEAK
REMOTELY I COULD
MAKE EVERYONE
HEAR ME.
THANK YOU.
YES THANK IS SO LADY ONE FOUR
FOUR FOUR OH SEVEN IN WARREN,
MICHIGAN AND THANK YOU MR. CHEN
FOR FOR A SUMMARY OF THIS SO
I&apos;LL KEEP IT BRIEF COMMENTS THE
REASONS YOU REQUEST THIS
EVENING AS YOU SAW FROM THE
OVERHEAD ECOMMERCE PLACE, YOUR
SHOPPING CENTER IS ALMOST LIKE
AN INVERTED L THE SPACE THAT
CITIZENS BANK IS GOING TO BE
OCCUPYING IS SIGNIFICANTLY SET
BACK FROM THE ROAD AND
PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT FOR
WESTBOUND TRAFFIC ON WEST
WASHTENAW BECAUSE THE SHOPPING
CENTER EXTENDS SO CLOSE TO THE
ROAD TO ITS EAST AND WE WERE
HOPING FOR IS SOME RELIEF FROM
THE VARIANCE TO ALLOW FOR
VISIBILITY FROM THE ROAD BETTER
VISIBILITY PARTICULARLY JUST
THE TWO SMALL SIGNS ON THE BANK
HAS REALLY IDENTIFIED VERY
SIGNIFICANTLY BY THAT SNOWFALL
LOGO.
THEY DO HAVE A GROUND SIGN
OF THE FRONT BUT THEY&apos;RE ONE
OF NINE TENANTS ON A FAIRLY
SMALL MONUMENT SIGN AND THE
RATE OF TRAFFIC ON WASHTENAW
WHEN THEY HAVE THREE OR FOUR
INCH HIGH PANEL JUST DOES AN
OFF FOR QUITE ENOUGH TIME FOR
SOMEBODY TO IDENTIFY THAT.
SO AND I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
CITY ITS INTENT TO LIMIT THE
HEIGHT OF THE SIGN BUT JUST THE
WAY THAT BUILDING IS CONFIGURED
,IT REALLY CAN&apos;T GO ANY HIGHER
BECAUSE THE WINDOWS THAT ARE ON
THAT ELEVATOR AND IN OTHER
SPACES IN THE SHOPPING CENTER,
A RED WING OR THE VITAMIN
WAREHOUSE HAVE SIGNS THAT ARE
AT THE 20 FOOT LEVEL WHICH
WOULD PROBABLY BE ACCEPTABLE.
BUT IN THIS CASE THERE&apos;S
WINDOWS THERE.
THEY JUST SORT HAVE THE HIGHEST
SPACE WITHIN THE CENTER AND AND
WE&apos;RE JUST THINKING THAT IT
WOULD FIT THAT SPACE WELL,
THERE WAS A SIGN THERE
PREVIOUSLY BEFORE THE ORDINANCE
HAD CHANGED AND WE&apos;RE HOPING
FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION TO TO
ALLOW THAT FOR TO SEE DO WE
HAVE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT
QUESTIONS?
OH, I&apos;M SORRY QUESTION
COMMISSIONER NELSON, WE&apos;VE
TALKED ABOUT EXCEPTIONS.
THIS SIGN ORDINANCE BEFORE AND
WE&apos;VE TALKED A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
SORT OF TRAFFIC IDENTIFYING AND
SPOTTING THE OCCASION TO TO
FIND IT.
DO YOU DO YOU SEE THE BANK IS
HAVING A NEED FOR PEOPLE TO TO
SEE IT TO KNOW TO GET INTO IT?
I MEAN I GUESS I&apos;M I&apos;M I&apos;M
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND AS A
DESTINATION AND IT&apos;S PROBABLY A
LITTLE DIFFERENT THAN A RETAIL
STORE IN SOME SOME RESPECTS IT
IS THAT IN MANY RESPECTS THE
BANK IT&apos;S A LOT OF THEIR
BUSINESS FOR NEW CUSTOMERS AND
THE CONVENIENCE AT ETM
LOCATIONS AND THE ABILITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SEE THAT LOGO FROM
WASHTENAW IS IT WAS A
TREMENDOUS DRAW FOR THEM WHEN
THEY WERE CONSIDERING THIS
LOCATION.
SO I GUESS TO SOME EXTENT AS
YOU MAY THINK OF BANK AS A
TRADITIONAL SPACE BUT THERE IS
A LOT OF IMPULSE STOPPING THAT
GOES IN THERE BECAUSE THE ATM
AND THAT DRAWS NEW CLIENTS.
THANK YOU COMMENTS QUESTIONS
DO
WE HAVE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT, IS THERE ANYONE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK IN REMOTE
EITHER MOVING ON FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT OR A DISCUSSION?
I GUESS WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
DISCUSSION.
YES, I DON&apos;T AS THE CHAIR I&apos;M
JUST GOING TO PIPE UP HERE AND
SAY I DON&apos;T REALLY SEE AN ISSUE
WITH THIS.
IT&apos;S THE SPACE WHERE IT CAN GO
OTHERWISE THEY COVER WINDOWS
JUST TO COVER .
YEAH, THE YOU KNOW, TO TO
ACCOMMODATE THE CHANGED
ORDINANCE.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE FOR
ADMINISTRATIVE ALREADY I HAVE A
QUESTION IN GRANTING THIS
VARIANCE DOESN&apos;T ALLOW THEM TO
PUT ANY SORT OF LIKE MOVING
SIGN OR LIKE WE HAVE A SEPARATE
REGULATION FOR THAT.
RIGHT.
LIKE FOR A VIDEO FOR THAT.
WOULD THAT BE AN ELECTRONIC
MESSAGE BOARD OR AN ELECTRONIC
COPY TYPE SIGN?
AND THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT&apos;S
BEING CONSIDERED FOR THIS YEAR
.
THAT&apos;S NO WE&apos;RE NOT GRANTING
THAT THAT WOULD NOT BE PART
OF THIS CONSIDERATION.
OK, THAT WAS MY ONE.
I WOULD ALSO ADD THAT ANY TYPE
OF FLASHING OR BLINKING WOULD
BE PROHIBITED IN THAT I
TYPICALLY PUT ON EVERY SIGN
PERMIT THAT AFTER BUSINESS
HOURS THIRTY MINUTES THE SIGN
MUST BE TURNED OFF AND IT
CANNOT BE TURNED DOWN TILL
THIRTY MINUTES BEFORE THE
OPENING OF THE BUSINESS.
SO I&apos;LL PUT A WHETHER THE
PETITIONER NOTICE OR NOT LITTLE
SIGNS ARE REQUIRED TO BE TURNED
OFF AFTER BUSINESS HOURS.
THIRTY MINUTES AFTERWARDS I
MUST TURN THE DISCUSSION I SEE
THIS IS RELATIVELY UNOBTRUSIVE
AND FAR FAR ENOUGH AWAY.
I DON&apos;T SEE IT AS A TRAFFIC
DISTRACTION AS MUCH AS I THE
UNIVERSITY&apos;S BILLBOARD OVER
THERE BY THE STADIUM WHICH IS A
DISTRACTION AND I THINK THE
HAZARD TO MOTORISTS BUT THE
UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL DEPARTMENT
GETS TO TO DO WHAT THEY WANT
WITH SIGNS ON THEIR PROPERTY.
THERE ARE ALSO THERE
MUNICIPALITY Y I&apos;M I&apos;M SPEAKING
TO THAT AND I IT&apos;S STILL STICKS
IN MY THAT THEY CAN DO THAT AND
HAVE THAT MOVING LIT BILLBOARD
THERE CONSTANTLY DISTRACTING
DRIVERS.
THIS IS RELATIVELY UNOBTRUSIVE.
I CAN EASILY SUPPORT THIS BUT I
DO WANT TO MENTION CHRIS, YOU
SAY THAT SIGNS ON WINDOWS I
KNOW BURGER KING AND MCDONALD&apos;S
PUT SIGNS ON WINDOWS ALL THE
TIME THAT YOU COULD SEE THROUGH
FROM THE INSIDE BUT YOU COULD
SEE HIM AS THE SIGNS FROM THE
OUTSIDE.
IT&apos;S TECHNOLOGY WITH SIGNS IS
AMAZING WHAT THEY CAN DO BUT
THIS IS SO UNOBTRUSIVE THAT I
CAN EASILY SUPPORT THIS
COMMISSIONER.
DANIEL, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO SPEAK TO A
VERY FULL KRA RIGHT NOW BUT
GIVE HIM HAVE EMPLOYED BUT BUT
I WILL SAY THIS TO ME IS GIVEN
THE WHERE THIS IS LOCATED.
RIGHT.
JUST A PURE VERY BUSY
COMMERCIAL STREET WHERE THIS IS
NOT ACROSS THE STREET FROM MY
HOME OR NEXT TO A HOUSE AND
WE&apos;VE ALL DRIVEN THIS STRETCH
OF WASHOUTS VERY BUSY.
IT&apos;S SOMETIMES HARD TO SEE WHAT
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FOR AND TO BE
THIRTY FEET GIVEN THAT THE
AUDIENCE THIS WERE FORTY FIVE
FEET IT COULD BE AS TALL AS IT
WANTS.
I&apos;M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT THE
REASONS BEHIND THAT.
I PERSONALLY HAVE NO ISSUE WITH
IT SO YEAH I&apos;M GOING TO BE
VOTING FOR THIS.
MR. MADIGAN, I APOLOGIZE.
I SLIPPED OUT DURING MR. KING&apos;S
PRESENTATION BUT I&apos;M GOING TO
VOTE AGAINST THIS.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT MEANS EVEN A
SINGLE ONE OF THE VARIOUS
STANDARDS I THINK THE HARDSHIP
THAT IS IMPOSED WAS IMPOSED BY
THE LANDOWNER WHO BUILT THE
BUILDING THIS WAY.
I JUST I UNDERSTAND THAT THEY
WANT TO COMPLY.
I UNDERSTAND WHY BUT I JUST I
DON&apos;T THINK IT MEETS EVEN ONE
SO I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE AGAINST
IT.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
I WAS I&apos;M SORRY COMMISSIONER
NELSON HEARING HERE CHRIS&apos;S
OPPOSITION TO IT GOT ME
WONDERING, YOU KNOW, THE SAME
WAY IN THE SAME WAY THAT WE
HAVE STRUCTURES THAT WERE BUILT
PRIOR TO ZONING AND WE HAVE A
LOWER STANDARD FOR THEM.
IT STRIKES ME THAT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS WHERE THE BUILDING
WAS CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO OUR
SIGN ORDINANCE THEY PROBABLY
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE DESIGNED THIS
BUILDING THIS WAY IF THEY IF
THE IF THE SIGN ORDINANCE HAD
AN EXISTENCE AND THEY HAD KNOWN
THAT THERE WAS THIS PROVISION
AROUND FOR SIGNS OVER 20 FEET,
I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT US JUST
BECAUSE I THINK IT&apos;S
UNOBTRUSIVE ALTHOUGH I AM A
LITTLE BIT SKEPTICAL ABOUT THE
NEED FOR IT.
I THINK IT&apos;S SORT OF IT&apos;S IN
THE SPIRIT OF THE OF THOSE
OF THE SIGN ORDINANCE BECAUSE
IT&apos;S NOT OVERLY LARGE OR
DISTRACTING TO HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS.
MR. DIVERSITY.
UM, SO COMMISSIONER MADIGAN
DOES RAISE A GOOD POINT THAT I
REMIND IS A STICKLER WHO RAISED
THE STANDARDS THAT WE HAVE FOR
A VARIANCE GRANTING A VARIANCE
ON A PREVIOUS ONE ABOUT THE
BUILDING A STRUCTURAL THING
THAT WOULD HOUSE PEOPLE IN MY
TROUBLE WITH NOT MEETING THE
STANDARDS AND I KNOW AND CHRIS
,OUR STAFF MEMBER FROM THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT I WANT TO
ADDRESS THIS TO YOU AND THIS
HAS COME UP BEFORE AS WE&apos;VE
CONSIDERED SIGNS THAT IS IT
REALLY RIGHT FOR US TO HAVE
THIS SORT OF VERY STANDARDS
THAT WE APPLY TO ZONING LIKE
BUILDINGS THROUGH RESIDENTIAL
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY TO HAVE THE SAME SORT
OF STANDARDS TO APPLY TO THE
GRANTING OF A SIGNED VARIANCE.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE&apos;VE ADDRESSED IN THE PAST AND
WAS HOPEFUL SOMEBODY HAD SAID
ONE OF THE STAFF MEMBERS HAD
SAID WELL, IT&apos;S LONG PAST TIME
FOR THE STAFF TO LOOK AT THIS
AND TO COME UP WITH APPARENTLY
RECENTLY OF CHANGED MADE SOME
CHANGES IN THE SIGN ORDINANCE.
BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE REALLY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE STAFF TO
COME UP WITH SOME SORT
OF STANDARDS FOR US TO EVALUATE
THESE VARIANCES THAT ARE
DIFFERENT THAN THE STANDARDS WE
USE FOR OTHER ZONING MATTERS.
IT&apos;S I JUST WANT TO URGE THE
STAFF TO DO THAT AND MAKE IT
EASIER FOR US TO DEAL WITH
THESE THE ZONING BOARD LEVEL.
WE&apos;RE VOLUNTEERS.
YOU HAVE STAFF TIME TO SPEND ON
THIS WOULD BE GREAT IF YOU GUYS
COULD COME UP WITH SOMETHING.
I&apos;M NOT ASKING FOR A RESPONSE.
I&apos;M JUST PUTTING OUT OK, IF YOU
WANT TO I COULD PROBABLY GIVE
ONE BUT WE&apos;LL LEAVE IT AT THAT.
I&apos;M NOT ASKING FOR SEEING NOR I
ONE OF THE COMMON COMMISSIONER
MADIGAN.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT&apos;S A
REALLY GREAT POINT.
DAVE.
I THINK STRICT COMPLIANCE WITH
VARIOUS STANDARDS WOULD LEAVE
ALL SIGNED REQUESTS.
YOU KNOW, TO BE DENIED AND THAT
YOU KNOW, A WAIVER PROCESS
WORRY THAT EITHER US OR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS A WIDER
SET OF STANDARDS WOULD SUIT
THIS REQUEST A LOT BETTER AND
WOULD PROBABLY FLY THROUGH
UNDER THOSE STANDARDS
.
SO YOU KNOW, THE COMMENTS ARE
MOVING FORWARD.
WE WOULD HAVE A MOTION I COULD
MAKE A MOTION STATIVE ALREADY
ZEBA TWENTY TWO DASHT TO
FOURTEEN THOUSAND FOURTEEN
THIRTY THREE SIXTY FIVE
WASHTENAW AVENUE BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE BASED ON THE
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
GRANTS A TEN FOOT VARIANCE FROM
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
SECTION FIVE POINT TO FOUR
GRANTS A TEN FOOT VARIANCE FROM
POINT FIVE B SUBSECTION TWO TO
SECTION FIVE POINT TO FOUR
ALLOW TO WALL SIGNS TO BE
POINT FIVE B SUBSECTION TWO TO
INSTALLED THIRTY FEET ABOVE
ALLOW TO WALL SIGNS TO BE
GRADE.
INSTALLED THIRTY FEET ABOVE
THE SIGNS ARE TO BE INSTALLED
GRADE.
ON THE SOUTH AND WEST SIDES
THE SIGNS ARE TO BE INSTALLED
OF THE BUILDING IN ACCORDANCE
ON THE SOUTH AND WEST SIDES
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
OF THE BUILDING IN ACCORDANCE
DO I HAVE SUPPORT?
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
WELL I WANT TO GIVE THE THE
DO I HAVE SUPPORT?
FOLLOWING FINDING ALLOWING THE
WELL I WANT TO GIVE THE THE
VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
FOLLOWING FINDING ALLOWING THE
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
PERIOD.
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
THANK YOU MR. VERRITY.
PERIOD.
I HAVE SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR MR.
THANK YOU MR. VERRITY.
MADIGAN.
I HAVE SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR MR.
MIKE DANIEL.
MADIGAN.
YES.
MIKE DANIEL.
DAVID VERDIE GIVATI YES.
YES.
RECIPROCALLY YES.
DAVID VERDIE GIVATI YES.
ELIZABETH NELSON YES.
RECIPROCALLY YES.
XMAN AND NO TRULY GOOD NO
WE
HAVE NO PASSAGE ON THAT.
WE HAVE WE GOT FOUR YES TO NO
BUT THAT VARIANCE HAS BEEN THE
VARIANCES DENIED BECAUSE WE
NEED FIVE CORRECT.
YES.
THANK YOU MR. DIETER&apos;S MOVING
ON TO ITEM IZIBOR TWENTY TWO
DASH TWENTY SEVENTEEN THIRTEEN
ONE MORNINGSIDE MR. CHRIS CHANG
IS GOING TO BE PRESENTING THIS
PETITION THIS EVENING AS WELL.
OK MR. BAIRD IS CORRECT.
ALEXIS DE IS THE PLANNER ON
THIS PROJECT BUT IN HER ABSENCE
I&apos;M GOING TO MAKE THE
PRESENTATION TO THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS.
THIS IS FOR ZIBA TWO TO DATE AS
TO ZERO ONE SEVEN LOCATED ONE
THREE ZERO ONE MORNINGSIDE
DRIVE A CHILD&apos;S PLACE LLC IS
SEEKING AN EIGHT SPACE OFF
STREET PARKING VARIANCE FOR
PROPOSED CHILD CARE CENTER AT
THIRTEEN ONE MORNINGSIDE DRIVE
.
THE PROPOSED CHILD CARE CENTER
IS REQUESTING APPROVAL FOR UP
TO FORTY CHILDREN AND TEN
CAREGIVERS WHICH REQUIRES TEN
OFF STREET PARKING SPACES FOR
THE CAREGIVERS PER SECTION
NINETEEN POINT TWO AND FIFTEEN
POINT FOUR I&apos;M SORRY FIVE POINT
ONE SIX POINT TWO POINT B POINT
ONE B OF UNIFIED.
THE PROPOSED SITE HAS TWO
EXISTING OFF STREET PARKING
SPACES.
THE APPLICANT INTENDS TO
ESTABLISH A CHAPTER CENTER AT
THIRTY ONE MORNINGSIDE DRIVE A
FOURTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
LOFT ZONE R ONE C THAT
CURRENTLY HAS APPROXIMATELY
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT ONE
STOREY BUILDING AND TWO
OF STREET PARKING SPACES.
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION PETITION TO
ALLOW A CHILD CARE CENTER FOR
UP TO FORTY CHILDREN IN TEN
CAREGIVERS HAS BEEN SUBMITTED
TO THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR APPROVAL AT THEIR AUGUST
THIRD TWENTY TWENTY TWO REGULAR
MEETING BASED ON THE PROPOSED
CAPACITY OF STREET PARKING
SPACES ARE IT SHOULD BE NOTED
THAT THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION ON MAY 17TH TWENTY
TWENTY TWO RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
ON A PACKAGE OF AMENDMENTS TO
THE UNITED UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE THAT WOULD ELIMINATE ALL
MINIMUM OFF STREET PARKING
REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL LAND USE
INCLUDING OFF STREET PARKING
FOR CAREGIVERS AT CHILD CARE
CENTERS AND THE RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICTS.
CITY COUNCIL PASSED THE
AMENDMENTS AT FIRST READING ON
JULY EIGHT TWENTY TWENTY TWO A
SECOND READING PUBLIC HEARING
AND VOTE IS SCHEDULED FOR
AUGUST FIFTEEN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO.
IT IS ANTICIPATED THAT SHORTLY
AFTER THIS VARIANCE REQUEST IS
CONSIDERED BY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS THE NEED FOR THE
VARIANCE MAY BE MOOT AT ALSO
LIKE TO NOTE THAT THERE ARE
OVER TWENTY FIVE ON STREET
PARKING SPACES WITHIN TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET OF THE
SUBJECT SITE.
SO WITH THAT LET&apos;S START THE
POWERPOINT PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; AS YOU CAN SEE THIS IS
OUTLINED IN YELLOW.
IT IS NORTH OF MILLER BUT IT IS
ON MORNINGSIDE DRIVE JUST TO
THE WEST OF NEWPORT, RHODE TO
THE NORTH THERE IS THE SCHOOL I
BELIEVE THAT&apos;S LINES ELEMENTARY
UP THAT WAY AND FORSIGHT MIDDLE
SCHOOL NEXT LINE HERE IS A BLOW
UP AS YOU COULD SEE IT IS ONLY
ONE SEAT.
IT IS SURROUNDED BY SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING, SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSES THE AREA NEXT SLIDE HERE
IS A CLOSE UP OF THE HOUSE IT
WAS PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED THREE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT HOME
APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT FLAT AS YOU CAN SEE
FROM THE DRIVEWAY IT WILL BE
LEADING WHEN YOU GET TO THE
PICTURE UP TO THE CARPORT AREA
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR ACTUALLY
JUST TWO LEGAL PARKING SPACES
ALTHOUGH THERE&apos;S ROOM FOR FIVE
SPACES IN THAT DRIVEWAY.
NEXT SLIDE HERE WE GOT THE
SURVEY ESSENTIALLY SHOWING THE
SAME THING THAT WAS PREVIOUSLY
DISCUSSED OF THE HOUSE LAYOUT.
NEXT SLIDE, HERE WE GO.
THIS IS LOOKING FROM
MORNINGSIDE DRIVE.
THAT WAS THE CARPORT STRUCTURE
THAT WAS REFERENCED WHERE YOU
COULD PARK CARS THERE AND TO
THE LEFT BUT BUT WITHOUT
MANEUVERABILITY WE CAN ONLY
COUNT TWO CARS ALTHOUGH FIVE
COULD FIT ON THAT DRIVEWAY.
NEXT SLIDE THIS VIEW IS LOOKING
SOUTH ON MORNINGSIDE DRIVE.
THIS IS PUBLIC PARKING ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE STREET.
THIS FOR THE MOST PART LOOKING
FOR THE PICKUP AND DROP OFF
WHERE CUSTOMER YEP.
THIS VIEW IS LOOKING TO THE
NORTH.
SAME THING PARKING ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE STREET WHERE IT
WAS PREVIOUSLY INDICATED THAT
THEY COULD HAVE UP TO TWENTY
FIVE CARS PARKED NEAR THE
RESIDENCE WITHIN TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY.
THIS VIEW IS LOOKING TO THE
EAST AND NEXT SLIDE THIS IS
LOOKING TO THE NORTH THAT&apos;S THE
ADJACENT NEIGHBOR.
NEXT SLIDE AND LOOKING TO THE
SOUTH OF THE PROPOSED CHILD
CARE CENTER.
NEXT SLIDE AGAIN WE&apos;RE LOOKING
ACROSS THE STREET PUBLIC
PARKING AND BOTH SIDES OF THE
STREET AND NEXT THAT CONCLUDES
PRESENTATION.
WE CAN REFER BACK TO ANY SLIDES
YOU MAY LIKE TO YOU KNOW, IF
YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ON THEM.
BUT I&apos;M OPEN TO ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE ANSWERS FROM THE
WARD
.
COMMISSIONER NELSON SO AS I&apos;M
READING THIS, I&apos;D LIKE US AN
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE FOR
EACH CAREGIVER.
SO IF TEN WOULD TYPICALLY THERE
WOULD BE TEN CAREGIVERS AT THIS
SITE MY MAXIMUM YEAH IT WOULD
IF THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF FORTY
CHILDREN WERE PROVE THAT THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE OK ALL
RIGHT HOW HOW ARE YOU COUNTING
THE TWENTY FIVE SPACES JUST ON
THAT BLOCK THE STREET PARKING
CODE THE PARKING MUST BE WITHIN
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET
OF THE SUBJECT SITE.
&gt;&gt; OK DID I WHEN I WAS LOOKING
AT THAT ONE OF THE PHOTOS FROM
THE STREET ARE THERE SIDEWALKS
ON BOTH SIDES OF THE STREET OR
JUST ON THIS SIDE OF THE STREET
.
OH OK NEVER MIND.
THERE WAS ONE PICTURE WHERE I
COULDN&apos;T SEE THE SITE.
OK THANKS.
THE COMMISSIONER GRANDMONT
QUESTIONED IS THE APPLICANT
HERE OR REMOTE
STATE YOUR NAME
HAVE FIVE MINUTES AND I&apos;M THE
OWNER OF A CHILD&apos;S PLACE OF AND
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING OUR
APPLICATION TO SPEAK DIRECTLY
TO YOUR QUESTION, COMMISSIONER
NELSON ABOUT THE TEN GIVEN THE
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR A
CHILD CARE CENTER, THE NUMBER
OF CAREGIVERS SAID AS A RATIO
FOR CAREGIVERS TO CHILDREN AND
IT DEPENDS ON THE AGES OF THE
CHILDREN.
SO FOR THE YOUNGEST AGE THE
RATIO IS FOUR TO ONE.
SO IF WE WERE LICENSED FOR
FORTY CHILDREN AND ALL OF THEM
WERE IN THE YOUNGER CATEGORY
THEN WE WOULD NEED TEN
CAREGIVERS AND SO THAT&apos;S WHY WE
CAME UP WITH THE NUMBER TEN.
NOW OBVIOUSLY THEY&apos;RE NOT ALL
GOING TO BE IN THE YOUNGEST
CATEGORY AND SO THE TOTAL
NUMBER OF CAREGIVERS THAT WE
HAVE WILL BE VARIABLE DEPENDING
ON HOW MANY CHILDREN WERE
ACTUALLY IN CARE AND WHAT THEIR
ACTUAL AGES WERE AT ANY GIVEN
TIME.
AND OF COURSE CHILDREN HAVE
THIS HABIT OF GROWING UP AND SO
THEY THEY GET OLDER AND THE
NUMBER OF CAREGIVERS, THE RATIO
OF CAREGIVERS CHANGES OVER TIME
.
SO THAT&apos;S A WORST CASE SCENARIO
IS TEN.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST NOTE THAT
CHILD CARE IS A SIGNIFICANT
NEED IN THE COMMUNITY.
THERE THERE IS A CHILD CARE
CRISIS IN THE UNITED STATES
GENERALLY WRIT LARGE AND AND IN
ANN ARBOR FOR SURE, WE ALREADY
HAVE MANY FAMILIES THAT HAVE
CONTACT WITH US AND HAVE BEEN
LOOKING FOR CARE FOR THEIR
CHILDREN.
SO THE DEMAND THE NEED FOR
CHILD CARE IS OUT THERE ALSO TO
SPEAK TO THE JUST THE TRAFFIC
THAT THAT MIGHT BE ASSOCIATED
WITH THIS PARKING THE CHILD
CARE BUSINESS.
A PARENT COMES IN THE MORNING,
DROPS OFF AND COMES BACK IN THE
EVENING AND PICKS UP AND SO
THERE&apos;S SOME TRAFFIC MAYBE
CONCENTRATED A LITTLE BIT IN
THE MORNING BUT IT TENDS TO BE
SPREAD OUT.
IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT ALL AT ONCE
AT A SPECIFIC TIME OF DAY.
IT DEPENDS ON THE PARENTS
SCHEDULES TO SPEAK OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF CREATING A
PARKING LOT HERE.
I BELIEVE I PUT IT IN MY
MATERIALS THAT IF WE WERE TO
CREATE A PARKING LOT WE WOULD
HAVE TO BASICALLY TAKE AWAY THE
FRONT YARD WHICH IS CURRENTLY
AS GRASS AND REPLACE THEM WITH
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
WE WOULD ALSO HAVE TO REMOVE
FOR MATURE TREES AND AT THE
SAME TIME WE WOULD CUT DOWN ON
THE AMOUNT OF OUTDOOR SPACE
THAT IS AVAILABLE TO TAKE CARE
FOR THE CHILDREN AND THAT IS A
LICENSING REQUIREMENT.
SO IT WOULD JUST BE FOR THE
DIFFICULTY OF CREATING AN OFF
STREET PARKING.
IT WOULD NOT BE IN CHARACTER
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT
WOULD REALLY IMPEDE THE THE
ABILITY TO TO GET LICENSED AS A
CHILD CARE CENTER.
SO THOSE ARE MY NOTES.
I&apos;M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE DOING
AND THE COMMISSIONERS HAVE
QUESTIONS
I GUESS IF MR.
REVERDY NOT RELEVANT TO MY
DECISION ON YES, EXACTLY.
BUT JUST LOOKS LIKE KIND OF A
CREEPY FRONTAGE ON THE SCREEN
THAT I WOULD BE HESITANT TO
DROP MY KIDS OFF.
YES.
AND I&apos;M IMAGINING YOU&apos;RE
PROBABLY ENVISIONING SOME SORT
SITE MODIFICATIONS TO KEMBA
WALKER IMAGINING THAT WE WOULD
PAINT A NICE CHILD FRIENDLY
MURAL ON THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
I GOT A PORTRAIT OF DAVE, RIGHT
?
YEAH, IT&apos;S THE PREVIOUS OWNERS
HAD PAINTED THE ENTIRE
STRUCTURE THIS KIND
OF INDUSTRIAL BASE AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S NOT NOT EXACTLY CHILDLIKE
BUT YES, THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE
IMAGINING.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
THANK FOR YOUR PRESENTATION.
WE&apos;RE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PERSON TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUAL PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE USE THE RAISE HAND
FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK THE PHONE ACCESS IS
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN ENTER
I&apos;M MEETING ID NUMBER NINE
THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT
ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH
WEBLINK YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST
IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
PLEASE COME UP AND STATE YOUR
NAME AND YOUR ADDRESS.
THANK YOU FOR COMING IN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING HERE.
THIS HAS BEEN VERY INFORMATIVE
FOR ME.
I&apos;M JULIE SORRY AT FIFTEEN
ELEVEN HILL RIDGE BOULEVARD SO
JUST AROUND THE CORNER FROM THE
POST SITE AND I WANT TO SAY
FIRST OF ALL I DO REALLY
RECOGNIZE THE NEED FOR MORE
CHILD CARE AND ABSOLUTELY
SUPPORT THAT THAT VISION AND
INTENT.
I THINK MY CONCERN IS WHEN I
THINK OF A BUSINESS WITH TEN
EMPLOYEES THAT FEELS OUT
OF SYNC WITH THIS VERY
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD AND
I&apos;VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT THIS
OVER THE LAST WEEK SINCE THE
POSTCARD CAME OUT ABOUT THIS
MEETING AND THEIR KIDS PLAYING
IN THE STREETS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A VERY IT&apos;S A VERY
FAMILY ORIENTED NEIGHBORHOOD
AND I&apos;M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC AND THE
TRAFFIC NOT JUST PARKING BUT
MOVING THROUGH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE&apos;S NOT AN OBVIOUS WAY LIKE
ONCE YOU GET IN YOU&apos;VE STILL
GOT TO GET OUT AND I&apos;M NOT
QUITE SURE HOW THE TRAFFIC IS.
I MEAN I THINK I THINK THAT
BOTH EMPLOYEES AND PARENTS
DROPPING OFF KIDS ARE GOING TO
END UP SORT OF WINDING THEIR
WAY THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND I JUST I WORRY ABOUT PEOPLE
BEING IN A RUSH TO GET TO WORK
AND THE THE TODDLER WHO&apos;S WHO&apos;S
OUT PLAYING IN OUR DRIVEWAY,
YOU KNOW, IT JUST IT FEELS IT
FEELS LIKE A BIGGER BUSINESS
THAN SUITS THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I WOULD REALLY SUPPORT A
SMALLER CHILD CARE CENTER IN
THIS LOCATION.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
BUT I THINK TEN EMPLOYEES AND
FORTY CHILDREN IT&apos;S JUST TOO
MANY CARS AND TOO MANY PEOPLE.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
ANYONE REMOTELY VARNEDOE
SHATKIN YOU&apos;LL BE PROMOTED TO
THE MEETING
THIS MAN SHOULD BE
IN.
&gt;&gt; I LIVE THIRTEEN FIFTEEN
MORNINGSIDE DRIVE WHICH IS TWO
HOUSES NORTH OF THE SITE.
I JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT THAT
NORTH OF THIRTEEN ONE OF THE
SITE OF THE PROPOSED CHILD CARE
CENTER THERE ARE RESIDENTIAL
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THESE HOMES
USE STREET PARKING AND THERE
ARE FREQUENTLY FREQUENTLY CARS
PARKED THERE PRETTY MUCH ALL
THE TIME.
SO NORTH OF THE SITE THERE
THERE ARE ALMOST NO SPOTS
AVAILABLE ON A REGULAR BASIS.
IT&apos;S JUST A BLOCK RIGHT.
FAMILIES COME IN WITH THEIR
EVENINGS WEEKENDS BUT ALSO IN
THE DAYTIME YOU KNOW MY
NEIGHBOR HAS QUILTING AND
PARTIES AND ALL KINDS SEXUAL
ACTIVITY WHATEVER.
BUT ANYWAY SOUTH OF THAT THERE
ARE RESPONSE SPOTS AVAILABLE TO
MY KNOWLEDGE TO NORTH TOWARD
HILL RIDGE AND THAT WHOLE
CORNER IS CONGESTED LIKE THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER SAID, THERE
ARE A LOT OF FAMILIES WITH
SMALL CHILDREN AND IT IS
CONCERNING THAT PEOPLE WOULD BE
PARKING IN THE TRAFFIC THAT
WOULD COME IN THROUGH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD FROM ANY DIRECTION
TO THAT SITE AND THERE&apos;S
CURRENTLY VERY LITTLE TRAFFIC
SO IT FEELS LIKE KIDS WALK TO
SCHOOL TO AND DURING THE SCHOOL
YEAR AND KIDS THEY&apos;RE JUST
THERE&apos;S KIDS GOING TO THE UP TO
FOUR SITES AND LINES AND THEY
USE A HALF WAY CUT THROUGH THAT
COMES UP MORNINGSIDE DRIVE.
LOTS OF FAMILIES UP THROUGH AND
WITH THEIR DOGS, YOU KNOW,
THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
SO I&apos;M JUST SAYING I AGREE WITH
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER AS WELL.
BUT FROM A PARTIZAN STANDPOINT
SPECIFICALLY NORTH OF THAT
PROPERTY OUR CARS ARE
CONSTANTLY PARKED ON THE STREET
BUT I DO HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT
THE SIZE POTENTIAL SIZE AND THE
AMOUNT PICK UP DROP OFF AND THE
PARKING SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
STEP UP.
STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES.
THANK YOU SIR.
SO MY NAME IS JOHN FLOAT AND I
LOVE IT ONE TWO THREE FIVE
MORNINGSIDE WHICH IS THE HOUSE
DIRECTLY SOUTH OF THE HOUSE AND
I THINK THAT I MEAN I THINK
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER MEETING ABOUT
THE ZONING FOR THE FOR THE FOR
THE LOCATION.
SO I&apos;M REALLY JUST TALKING
ABOUT THE PARKING ISSUE AND IT
HADN&apos;T OCCURRED TO ME UNTIL
THIS MEETING.
BUT IF THE PROPERTY OWNER IS
FACED WITH A CHOICE BETWEEN
STREET PARKING AND PAVING THE
FRONT AND PUTTING A PARKING LOT
THERE AS THE NEXT DOOR
NEIGHBOR, I WOULD MUCH PREFER
IT TO BE STREET PARKING LIKE
WHAT THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR THE
VARIANCE.
I&apos;D RATHER HAVE THEM ALLOWED TO
BE ABLE TO PARK IN THE STREET
VERSUS HAVING TO PAVE THAT OVER
AND HAVE A PARKING LOT
, A LARGE
PARKING LOT OR A LARGER ONE AT
THE FRONT OF THE PROPERTY.
SO THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IS THERE OTHER PUBLIC COMMENT?
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CARS ALL RIGHT.
THERE WAS ONE COMMENT FROM ONE
EMAIL.
YES, BRING THEM IN.
DO I HAVE THAT I HAVEN&apos;T SEEN
IT&apos;S IN THE PACKET.
IT&apos;S RIGHT HERE.
I SEE IT AND I BELIEVE IT WAS A
NEIGHBOR AND THEY WERE PRETTY
IT WERE FORTMAN IMPORTANT.
ONE OF THOSE THINGS WAS A
NEUTRAL FAMILY AND I CAN&apos;T
REMEMBER SINCE WE HAD RIGHT IN
COMMENTS DO I READ THOSE OR DO
YOU JUST ACCEPT THEM INTO THE
RECORD?
YOU HAVE AN EMAIL FROM A
NEIGHBOR, CARL ABREGO WHO LIVES
AT THIRTEEN OR SEVEN
MORNINGSIDE CARL BROGO AND
SCHIMEL MURRAY FOR THE RECORD
THANK YOU MR. BARRETT.
DISCUSSION MR. DENHA.
YES, I APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS
FROM FROM THE VARIOUS MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC.
CLEARLY THIS IS A BUSINESS THAT
ALLOWED TO OPERATE IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
RIGHT?
THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT WE&apos;RE DEBATING
WHETHER IT&apos;S GOOD FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR NOT, THAT&apos;S NOT
WITHIN OUR PURVIEW.
I DO AGREE WITH THE POINTS
OF THE PETITION ABOUT CHILD
CARE BEING A MAJOR, MAJOR
CHALLENGE IN THIS IN THIS AREA.
TO ME, NO ONE EVER WANTS ANY
THING THAT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE UP
ANY STREET PARKING IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT DOESN&apos;T MATTER WHAT IT&apos;S FOR
PEOPLE YOU KNOW, I GET THAT
THAT&apos;S NATURAL.
I THINK IN THIS CASE WHERE THIS
IS TO ME THEY&apos;RE YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE DON&apos;T HAVE A PROPERTY OR
SORT OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO
THE STREET PARKING ON THEIR
STREET.
IT&apos;S NOT THEIRS.
THE CITY CONTROLS THAT AND THIS
IS AN ALLOWABLE BUSINESS.
I THINK THAT IT&apos;S ALL MAYBE
MOOT THE NEXT CITY COUNCIL
MEETING ANYWAYS.
BUT I&apos;M NOT VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
I THINK IT&apos;S YOU FOR ME THE
NEED FOR MORE CHILD CARE
OUTWEIGHS THE INCONVENIENCE TO
THE IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS.
COMMISSIONER NELSON, I MIGHT
HAVE A UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE ON
THIS BECAUSE I I UNDERSTOOD
EXACTLY WHAT THE PETITION I WAS
TALKING ABOUT IN TERMS OF THE
AGE OF THE CHILDREN BECAUSE I
WORK IN A PRESCHOOL THAT
CLASSIFIED AS CHILD CARE THE
THE WORST CASE OR MAXIMUM
CAPACITY CONCEPT OF FORTY
CHILDREN AND TEN STAFF I THINK
IS PROBABLY UNLIKELY.
AND THE OTHER THING THAT I
WOULD POINT TO IS THAT WE
ACTUALLY I PULLED UP A MAP
OF IT BECAUSE I WAS TRYING TO
REMIND MYSELF OF WHAT THIS
FACILITY LOOKED LIKE.
THERE&apos;S AN EXAMPLE OF A CHILD
CARE FACILITY GRETCHEN&apos;S HOUSE
AT MOUNT VERNON RIGHT ADJACENT
TO EVERYNIGHT THAT IS REALLY
CRAMMED IN IN A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT IS A LOT TIGHTER THAN THIS
ONE.
AND I WAS LOOKING AT THE AERIAL
VIEW AND I I&apos;M PRETTY SURE THAT
THE MOUNT VERNON GRETCHEN&apos;S
HOUSE DOESN&apos;T HAVE ANY PARKING
OR IT DOESN&apos;T LOOK TO HAVE ANY
SO SPEAKING TO THE THE
NEIGHBORS CONCERNS WELL, I HEAR
YOU WE THERE&apos;S AN EXAMPLE THAT
I SAW EVERY DAY THAT I BROUGHT
MY CHILDREN TO SCHOOL WHERE
THIS THIS WAS MANAGEABLE AND IT
WAS NOT HAZARDOUS IN THAT
SITUATION THERE WAS ACTUALLY A
MUCH BIGGER CONFLICT BECAUSE
THAT CHILD CARE FACILITY IS
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO A DRIVE
TO EBRIGHT SCHOOL.
I&apos;M LOOKING I&apos;M LOOKING AT THIS
LOCATION AND WELL, THE TWO
THINGS THAT I&apos;M THINKING ABOUT
IS FIRST THAT IT&apos;S A VERY
LIKELY THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE 10
STAFFERS AND THIS THERE IS A
QUITE A BIT MORE SPACE AND MORE
ROOM TO MANEUVER FOR FAMILIES
GOING IN AND OUT AND AGAIN
LIKELY FEWER THAN 40 I WOULD
GUESS I WOULD SAY WELL I MEAN I
GUESS I DON&apos;T KNOW THE BUSINESS
MODEL BUT I MEAN IT&apos;S HIGHLY
UNLIKELY THAT THIS IS ALL GOING
TO BE INFANTS.
I&apos;M INCLINED TO SUPPORT THIS
ONLY BECAUSE OF MY WHAT I KNOW
OF THESE BUSINESSES AND WHAT I
KNOW OF THE ONE THAT WAS THAT&apos;S
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THAT
FUNCTIONS QUITE WELL IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE US.
MR. DIVERSITY, I HAVE A
QUESTION FOR OUR STAFF MEMBER
CHRIS CHANG.
WE HAD ONE THING PULLED BECAUSE
OF THE CHANGES UPCOMING IN
PARKING REGULATIONS THAT WOULD
MAKE THIS MOOT.
WHAT&apos;S BEFORE US.
BUT THE PEOPLE THIS PETITION
HERE I THINK WANTED TO PROCEED
BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE UP FOR A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IS THAT
ACCURATE?
YEAH, THAT&apos;S THAT IS ACCURATE
AND JUST FOR CLARIFICATION,
WHICH CULTURE CENTER IN A
RESIDENTIAL ZONE NEIGHBORHOOD
SINGLE FAMILY IS NOT A PIRATE
YOUTH.
THEY WILL BE GOING TO THE
AUGUST 3RD PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING TO GET A SPECIAL
SECTION USED TO ALLOW FOR A
CHILD CARE CENTER IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING
THAT IS ALLOWED.
IT&apos;S GOT PERMISSION AND
APPROVAL AT THE AUGUST 3RD
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.
SO I WOULD RESPECT RESPECTFULLY
DIRECT NEIGHBORS WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THIS USE OF THE
PROPERTY THAT THAT MIGHT BE THE
MOST APPROPRIATE WAY TO RAISE
THEIR CONCERNS WHETHER IT&apos;S
CREATING MORE TRAFFIC OR
DANGERS TO OTHER CHILDREN, THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR WHATEVER THEIR
CONCERNS MIGHT BE THAT WOULD BE
THE APPROPRIATE VENUE TO RAISE
THOSE CONCERNS.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO LIMIT MY
COMMENT TO THE PARKING WHICH IS
WHAT&apos;S BEFORE US.
THE I&apos;M PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
STICKLER THAT WE SHOULD ENFORCE
OUR PARKING REQUIREMENT.
IT&apos;S CONCERNING TO ME THAT
WE&apos;RE ABOUT TO DO AWAY WITH
THEM.
I&apos;VE SEEN THE IMPACT OF NEW
DEVELOPMENT AND BUSINESSES ON
PARKING IN NEIGHBORHOODS.
I LIVE IN A NEAR DOWNTOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD OVER BY BERN&apos;S
PARK.
I&apos;VE BEEN SITUATIONS I&apos;VE SEEN
SITUATIONS WHERE PEOPLE USE
RESIDENTIAL PERMIT PARKING THAT
THEY GET INSTALLED IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD TO RESTRICT
COMMUTERS FROM JUST PARKING UP
THE WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I&apos;VE SEEN A LOT OF THESE
ISSUES WITH PARKING ALSO I&apos;M
I&apos;M SWAYED BY THE FACT THAT
THIS IS MOOT POTENTIAL.
I MEAN NORMALLY I WOULD VOTE
AGAINST THIS BECAUSE I THINK WE
SHOULD ENFORCE THESE PARKING
LOT BUT I&apos;M ALMOST WONDERING
WHY WHY IS IT EVEN BEFORE US I
WISH THE I UNDERSTAND THE
PETITIONER WANTING TO GET THIS
RESOLVED BUT WHY NOT WAIT TILL
AFTER THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
HEARING YOU KNOW, ALMOST TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH MY PREVIOUS
VOTES ON PARKING REQUIREMENTS,
I FEEL LIKE I HAVE TO VOTE
AGAINST THIS.
YOU KNOW, IF IT&apos;S IF YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO CHANGE THE POLICIES
OF THE CITY IN ITS WISDOM IS
GOING TO CHANGE ITS POLICIES
FINE.
BUT THEY HAVEN&apos;T CHANGED THEM
YET.
SO PROBABLY I&apos;M GOING TO UNLESS
SOMEBODY CAN SWAY ME WITH SOME
PERSUASIVE ARGUMENT, I WILL
PROBABLY VOTE AGAINST THIS BUT
I&apos;M STILL UP IN THE AIR A BIT
OF I DO WANT TO SAY TO THE
RESIDENTS MY KIDS WENT TO A
DAYCARE COMMUNITY DAYCARE
CENTER ON WESTMINSTER AT HENRY
IN A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT WAS A GREAT SETTING, GREAT
CHILDCARE OPPORTUNITY.
SUBSEQUENTLY LONG AFTER HE
ATTENDED, MY SON BECAME A STAFF
MEMBER THERE AND ALSO WORKED AT
THE DAY CAMPS THAT THEY RAN IN
THE SUMMER ITALIAN SCHOOL.
IT&apos;S THESE ARE WONDERFUL PLACES
AND IF IF THERE WAS SOMEBODY
THAT WANTED TO COME ON MY BLOCK
OVER IN BIRDS PARK AND PUT IN A
CHILDCARE CENTER, I WOULD
PROBABLY FIND MYSELF GOING AND
SPEAKING IN FAVOR OF IT BECAUSE
THESE ARE THE KINDS OF THINGS
WE NEED AND I THINK THEY&apos;RE
THEY&apos;RE REALLY ADD TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THEY DON&apos;T DETRACT
FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THAT
ACTIVITY OF THOSE CHILDREN
FAMILIES I SEE IS A BENEFIT TO
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
I KNOW YOU&apos;RE ALREADY GOT ONE
SCHOOL THERE IN FORSIGHT SCHOOL
RIGHT THERE HANDY BUT IT&apos;S I
WOULD JUST SAY TO THE RESIDENTS
THAT HAVE CONCERNS THINK ABOUT
THIS AS A POTENTIAL GREAT
BENEFIT FOR YOU.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE PART
ON THE PARKING ISSUE WHICH IS
WHAT&apos;S FREE FOR US UNLESS
SOMEBODY CAN GIVE ME A REASON
TO VOTE FOR IT, I&apos;M GOING TO
END UP VOTING AGAINST
COMMISSIONER NELSON.
IT OCCURS TO ME THAT I ACTUALLY
LIVE EQUIDISTANT TO TWO
GRETCHEN&apos;S HOUSES THE ONE ON
MOUNT VERNON IS NESTLED IN A
RESIDENTIAL AREA AND THEN THE
GRETCHEN&apos;S HOUSE ON STADIUM
BOULEVARD IS BACKED UP TO A
RESIDENTIAL AREA.
AND MY OBSERVATIONS ARE THAT
CHILD CARE FACILITIES THAT ARE
ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL AREAS
LIKE THIS, THEY DO ATTRACT A
LOT OF PEOPLE WALKING
AND SO I
WOULD NOT PRESUME THAT
EVERYBODY BRINGING CHILDREN TO
THIS DAYCARE CENTER WOULD EVEN
BE DRIVING.
I WOULD BE REALLY HOPEFUL ABOUT
MANY NOT DRIVING.
I KNOW I HAVE NEIGHBORS WHO
PUSH THEIR KIDS IN STROLLERS TO
THE GRETCHEN&apos;S HOUSE ON
STADIUM.
THE PRESCHOOL THAT I WORK AT,
MANY OF THE FAMILIES WALK
PUSHING STROLLERS ON THIS.
THIS IS JUST I FEEL LIKE THESE
KIND OF OPPORTUNITIES TO TUCK
THINGS INTO RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE OPPORTUNITIES
WE SHOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF .
I WOULD MUCH RATHER HAVE A
LOCATION LIKE THIS THAN
SOMEBODY DRIVING DOWN OAK BROOK
TO BRING THEIR CHILD TO A CHILD
CARE CENTER THAT IS JUST
COMPLETELY SURROUNDED BY
COMMERCIAL.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MAGU.
I JUST WANT TO ECHO DAVE&apos;S
COMMENTS FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
CAME AND SPOKE TONIGHT.
YOU KNOW, THEY WERE CERTAINLY
HEARD BY US BUT THAT KIND
OF THE BIGGER DECISION ON THE
YOUTH IS DEFINITELY THE AUGUST
3RD ONE.
I THINK THAT&apos;S MORE PERTINENT
FOR YOUR OVERALL COMMENTS ABOUT
THE YOUTH, THE INTENSITY, HOW
IT&apos;S DESIGNED, THINGS LIKE THAT
.
IF I HAD TO VOTE ON A SPECIAL
AND YOU THROUGH THIS YEAR I&apos;D
VOTE NO BUT WE DON&apos;T SO AS FAR
AS THE PARKING GOES, I&apos;M GOING
TO SUPPORT IT.
I THINK IT&apos;S KIND OF SILLY TO
MAKE THEM PUT A TIME TEN
PARKING SPACE UNIT OUT FRONT
AND CAN&apos;T EVEN GUARANTEE THAT
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE TEN
EMPLOYEES THERE AND THERE&apos;S
AMPLE STREET PARKING TO SUPPORT
IT.
DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
?
SO DO WE HAVE A MOTION?
I&apos;LL MAKE A MOTION ZEBA TWENTY
TWO DASH TWENTY SEVENTEEN
THIRTEEN POINT ONE MORNINGSIDE
DRIVE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
FINDINGS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS EIGHT
PARKING SPACE VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT TO BE ONE POINT V FOR THE
PROPOSED CHILD CARE CENTER
PROPOSED VEHICLE PARKING SPACE
REDUCTION FROM TEN REQUIRED
SPACES TO TWO PARKING SPACES
SUPPORT WE HAVE SUPPORT
MCDANIEL YES DENHA VERDIE.
I WISH I DIDN&apos;T ALWAYS HAVE A
VOTE SECOND WELL THEN I START
AT THE BOTTOM AND GO UP JULIA
GOOD.
YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
ELIZABETH NELSON YES.
CHRIS BAILEY THE CHAIR VOTES
YES.
MR. HAVE ALREADY I SHOULD VOTE
YES BECAUSE THAT WON&apos;T MAKE ANY
DIFFERENCE.
YES WE HAVE THE MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU FOR COMING BEFORE US
TODAY.
ARE MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
DO WE HAVE UNFINISHED BUSINESS
SEEING NONE.
WE&apos;RE MOVING ON TO NEW
BUSINESS.
DO WE HAVE NEW BUSINESS, MR.
BARRETT?
NO NEW BUSINESS.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS.
JUST THE ONE EMAIL.
OK, VERY GOOD BUT DO WE HAVE
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT?
DO I HAVE AN EMOTION TO IT?
I&apos;M SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU MR. BARRETT, DO WE
HAVE AN EMOTION TO GERN COME IF
WE HAVE A MOVEMENT WE NEED TO
MOVE TO TO ADJOURN ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR I I ALL THOSE OPPOSED
SEEING NONE.
WE ARE DONE THIS EVENING.
&gt;&gt; THANK